# **BARRINGTON PLANNING BOARD**

## **Regular Business Meeting Minutes**

7 PM, Tuesday, August 1, 2023 Council Chamber at Town Hall 283 County Road, Barrington, RI

#### **1. Call to Order.**

Acting Chair Lawrence Bacher called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

## **2. Roll Call and Determination of Quorum.**

*Present:* Lawrence Bacher, Richard Godfrey, Bill Kurtz, Brian Morley, Brian Rua

*Also Present:* Teresa Crean, Town Planner; Isabelle Gillibrand, Planning/Zoning Assistant; Amy Goins, Assistant Town Solicitor

*Absent:* Roni Phipps (Chair), Alexander Mueller, Rick Simms

## **2.1 Elect an Acting Chair for Meeting**

Member Bacher noted that without a Chair or Vice Chair present, need to add item to agenda to elect an acting chair for the meeting.

**MOTION: Member Kurtz, seconded by Member Rua made a motion to add an agenda item to elect an Acting Chair. Motion carried unanimously.**

**MOTION: Member Rua, seconded by Member Kurtz made a motion to nominate Member Bacher as Acting Chair. Member Bacher accepted the nomination. Motion carried unanimously.**

## **3. Consent Agenda**

**3.1 Approve Minutes** – July 11, 2023 Regular Business Meeting

Member Bacher made the following comments/edits:

Page 2, 4.2, 2nd paragraph, 1st line -- should read "the Comprehensive Plan assigns design guidelines as a task. The Village Center Design Guidelines originating in 1995 referenced in Table 1 Goal 2C (page 152) include signage but also address a broader goal of encouraging appropriate building and site design. The comment was intended to indicate that changes in signage regulations should be part of a broader discussion regarding how we believe the Village Center should be developed.

**MOTION: Member Godfrey, seconded by Member Kurtz, made a motion to approve the minutes of the July 11, 2023 Regular Business Meeting as amended. Motion carried unanimously.**

#### **4. Public Hearing**

Discuss and Act: Comprehensive Permit Review, Preliminary Plan Submittal for 173R Maple Avenue, AP 23, Lot 325 in the Residence-10 and Neighborhood Business Zone. Applicant proposes creation of four units on the site: Unit 1 is a first-floor apartment that would result from renovation of the existing garage onsite to an accessible LMI unit (1,440 square feet); Unit 2 is the existing market rate unit, which will remain unchanged (1,440 square feet); Units 3 & 4 will be new market-rate dwelling units attached to the existing two-car garage to the south (1,064 square feet each). Master Plan approval for this application was granted in June 2021.

*Present: S. Paul Ryan, attorney for the applicant*

*Peter Rogers, applicant and owner*

*Michael Marinis, engineer for the project*

*Richard Lipsitz, Waterman Engineering*

Attorney Ryan reviewed Master Plan approval from 2021, and noted that the Board granted an extension in June 2023. The team met with the Technical Review Committee (TRC) in June with the Preliminary Plan, and TRC recommended reducing pervious surface and removing the sidewalk along the driveway.

Assistant Solicitor Goins reviewed with the Board and public in the audience that the aspects of the Master Plan are set in stone, how the applicant is not going to be asking for anything new or different, and the Board not revisiting that decision. Goins further clarified that the Preliminary Plan is more detailed information, reiterating that the Master Plan is vested as to use and density and overall project layout. Town Planner Crean reviewed the materials distributed to the Board, including an updated site plan from TRC, received Friday July 28, 2023.

Marinis noted that the site plan has been improved. He explained that the existing curb cut is to be widened from 16 feet to 20 feet. Marinis noted that the size of the driveway was also discussed with the TRC. Marinis reviewed that there will be the existing dwelling with two units, a new building on the west side adjacent to existing garage which will be a two-family dwelling (one unit on each floor). The existing building, existing driveway, and new building will be connected to new drainage system. Marinis reviewed that the plan is to maintain the existing landscaping, and relandscape the disturbed areas. Marinis clarified that the major difference between old site plan and new is the elimination of the sidewalk.

Attorney Ryan reviewed each of the units with Marinis. Marinis noted that one of the ten parking spaces will be ADA compliant for the first-floor affordable unit. Marinis then clarified that the second floor will market-rate unit and noted the intent of adding a privacy fence. Marinis and Attorney Ryan that noted that the driveway would be widened to meet fire code requirements. Marinis then reviewed the proposed new structure with two units. Marinis noted the existing gazebo immediately south of proposed building, which will remain. He then noted the existing one-story garage, which will remain as is as a garage.

Marinis referred to Sheet #2/Tab #14 in the application booklet, reviewing the stormwater drainage plan. Marinis noted the existing gas service to dwelling, and plan on using gas heat. Marinis confirmed that the roofing connection will be only modification to the existing garage.

Attorney Ryan confirmed that the accessible unit will be deed restricted for two years, which was approved by RIHousing.

Town Planner Crean reviewed the TRC notes from the June minutes. The Fire Chief provided comment in a memorandum, which Town Planner Crean read into the record. The Police Chief and the Director of Public Works did not provide comment.

*Acting Chair Bacher opened the meeting to public comment.*

Alan Flam, 33 Hilltop Avenue, thanked Rogers for the affordable housing component. As an abutting neighbor, Flam commented that he thinks this is a fine plan, but hopes will be in communication for landscaping, lighting, and the like, but happy to have the project in the neighborhood.

Demetria Carr, 31 Hilltop Avenue, noted confusion with the proposal, expressed concern about noise level and lighting, and hopes for open communication.

James San Giovanni 125 Maple Avenue, noted the current tenant is disruptive, and feels concerned there will be more noisy tenants. San Giovanni also noted his concern of the precedent that this sets and spread of higher density throughout the Town. Stated for the record he is for affordable housing.

*Acting Chair closed the meeting to public comment.* 

Member Godfrey noted several conditions from the Master Plan stage that appear to be missing from the submission.

Marinis addressed a couple of items from public comment. Marinis clarified that the only new structure is the one adjacent to the garage, that the subject property is a split zone lot between R-10 and Neighborhood Business Zone, and aside from typical lighting on a single-family dwelling, such as the entrance, nothing extra will be added.

Acting Chair Bacher commented that the Preliminary Plan materials was missing the following:

- ➢ A schedule for interior finishes, which was a condition at Master Plan.
- ➢ An elevation sketch.
- ➢ Buffer between fencing and plantings, which he did not see the plantings addressed. Under item 26, states the "existing landscape is to remain" but that landscaping has not been addressed in the submission.
- ➢ Utilities not shown to the existing structure. Acting Chair Bacher commented that he presumes they will utilize the existing lines, but asked if they confirmed that the existing utility services will survive. Acting Chair Bacher asked how utilities will be brought down the site (whether more poles, underground, or otherwise).

➢ Acting Chair Bacher noted that he did not see drainage calculations. Town Planner Crean noted drainage calculations on sheet 2 of the plans. Acting Chair Bacher noted Conservation Commission review is needed for the wellhead..

Marinis noted drainage calculations on sheet 2, and explained the drainage plan in more detail. Marinis then reiterated the existing water and sewer, and how though electrical is not shown, they are anticipating tapping northern pole and then underground conduit. Marinis clarified details on the sewer. Marinis noted that they have not gotten flow tests or the like yet for the water or the size of the main, and still need to run through confirmation. Marinis referred to landscaping, and clarified that the plan to preserve what is there, but not anticipated providing any new plants and trees unless required to. Lipsitz provided more information and context to the buffer referred to with the Master Plan conditions, and that Rogers would have open conversations with abutters to determine that. Acting Chair Bacher clarified that the existing fence will be maintained, but no additional plantings.

Member Kurtz confirmed that the garage will stay a garage, and that there will be ten parking spots total. Member Kurtz commented that the density proposed is not far off from the surrounding residential density. Member Kurtz then noted significant conversation on the use of the existing shed during the Master Plan stage and asked if that had been resolved. Member Rua noted the use is for residents on the property.

Member Rua reiterated that there were no elevation drawings. Rogers noted it was provided in previous applications. He noted that although not in this booklet, they do not plan on changing the elevations proposed in the Master Plan materials.

Member Bacher noted a dispute noted on the 5-2-22 survey. Assistant Solicitor Goins advised the Board to let civil disputes play out, not for the Board to consider, and the group should focus on the checklist and requirements for approval. Acting Chair Bacher confirmed if later the boundaries change the applicant/owner would need to come back, and Assistant Solicitor Goins confirmed that was correct.

Town Planner Crean noted that the Conservation Commission can review this application for their August 8, 2023 meeting.

Acting Chair Bacher asked about the office use. Attorney Ryan clarified that there is no change to the home office which was previously approved by the Zoning Officer. Assistant Solicitor Goins noted no additional relief needed. Member Rua noted it is an existing nonconforming.

Acting Chair Bacher asked about proposed verses existing contours, and Marinis clarified.

Acting Chair Bacher clarified with Attorney Ryan that all the units will be rental units, and not for sale. Acting Chair Bacher noted the sample agreement provided does not seem to apply or fit to the subject property and should be more related to the agreement. Assistant Solicitor Goins noted she reviews the deed restrictions prior to recording. Member Godfrey concurred that the sample agreement is not applicable at all to this parcel.

Member Godfrey reiterated the concern with missing elevation plans, and asked if the floor plans are conceptual. Marinis clarified that the site plan are construction drawings, and Mr. Rogers clarified that the floor plans are what will move forward.

Acting Chair Bacher reviewed that the applicant was to consult with the neighbors with landscaping, and from public comment it appears this has not happened. Member Kurtz noted that why he asked the question what they are buffering. Member Godfrey reviewed that in the materials the Board is missing elevation plans, a suitable sample affordable housing sample agreement, and there is outstanding confusion about the buffer referred to in the Master Plan. Acting Chair Bacher recommended that team come back to the Board with requested items and clarification on buffer.

**MOTION: Member Godfrey, seconded by Member Rua, made a motion to continue the public hearing to September 5, 2023 meeting with following instruction to the applicant:**

- **Provide clarification on the buffer.**
- **Provide Building Elevation Plans.**
- **Provide revised Affordable Housing Covenants.**
- **Conservation Commission review of the wellhead.**
- **Utility Plan.**

**Motion carried unanimously.**

#### **5. New Business**

**5.1 Discuss and Act: Capital Improvement Program, request for authorization of FY25 funds to support ordering a new Emergency Management Vehicle for Barrington Fire Department**

Town Planner Crean explained how Fire Chief Bessette has requested a placeholder in next fiscal's year Capital Improvement Program (CIP), noting there is a vehicle at end of life and long lead time to receive the new vehicle. The Fire Chief has requested the Planning Board approve and put approval in writing for authorized amount so the vehicle order can go in now for the replacement emergency vehicle. Town Planner Crean noted that the request is also to amend the amount of money required for FY25 from \$225,000 to \$250,000 so the total amount would be available. Town Planner Crean clarified nothing needs to be paid upfront, but the Town cannot place the order unless authorized with the CIP.

Acting Chair Bacher reminded the Board about the July discussion about residual value of the vehicle to be replaced, and Town Planner Crean noted that after consulting the Fire Chief and Finance/Business Director it would be expected it would be \$25,000 but cannot use as part of this as surplus is put in the general fund. Having gone through CIP process, Member Kurtz noted how the Fire Chief good with managing department money. Chief Bessette sent comment via email to Town Planner Crean detailing vehicle cycle and transition, and how the price for vehicle turn in depends on various factors.

**MOTION: Member Kurtz seconded by Member Rua, made a motion to grant the request for authorization of \$250,000 of FY25 funds to support ordering a new Emergency Management Vehicle for Barrington Fire Department. Motion carried unanimously.**

**6. Reports from Planning Board Members: Housing Board liaison (Bacher); Economic Development Commission liaison (Rua); Resilience and Energy Committee liaison** 

**(Phipps); TRC member(s) (vacant); Harbor Commission liaison (vacant); Park and Recreation Commission (vacant); Zoning Board (Simms); Open Space Committee (Morley); Bike and Pedestrian Advisory Committee (Rua).**

Town Planner Crean reported on Leaf Blower/Trimmer program that the Resilience and Energy Committee made recommendations on to the Town Council, the application for the rebate opening on August 1, 2023.

Clerk Gillibrand provided an update on the June and July Bicycle-Pedestrian Advisory Committee meetings. Member Morley asked about their involvement with Bike Path Bridges, and Town Planner Crean noted the BPAC just reviewed the plans that were on the RIDOT website, and the Town Manager is briefed about progress.

Brian Morley volunteered to serve as the Harbor Commission liaison.

Acting Chair Bacher noted needing to elect several liaison positions, along with a Vice Chair, at the September meeting.

Member Rua reported on the Economic Development Commission, including a new pizza restaurant coming into town, and that the group is still discussing the liquor training ordinance and organizing a business forum.

#### **7. Comments - Board Members, Council Liaison & Director of Planning**

Master Plan pre-application review at 33 Middle Highway potentially for September. Town Planner Crean clarified this would be a presentation and not a public hearing. Town Planner Crean requested the application be submitted at least three weeks in advance, and the applicant team would have up to 90 minutes on the agenda. Assistant Solicitor Goins reviewed how the process would go, including Planning Board Master Plan and Town Council Comprehensive Plan Amendments. Member Godfrey requested the process be reviewed at the next hearing for both the Board and public. Assistant Solicitor Goins noted that the big headline is that no decisions will be made, simply an opportunity for the developer to get feedback so that when formally submitted it is closer to what is acceptable. Town Planner Crean noted she is working with the Town Manager to outline the process. Crean also provided an update on the pending demolition permit application for Belton Court. Crean noted fieldhouse discussion off the table, as it was deemed to be unsuitable for the area.

Crean reviewed the 25 Watson Avenue conversation from July 24 Town Council Meeting, including an updated FAQ addressing neighbor questions, and updated appraisal also available on the Town website.

Member Rua asked for further explanation about Planning Board of Appeals moving from Zoning Board to Superior Court.

## **8. Adjourn**

**MOTION: Member Rua made a motion to adjourn at 8:36 PM and the meeting was adjourned.**