## **BARRINGTON PLANNING BOARD**

## **Regular Business Meeting**

7 p.m. Tuesday, September 5, 2023 Presentation Room 1402 – Barrington Middle School 261 Middle Highway, Barrington, RI

**Meeting materials can be found online at<https://www.barrington.ri.gov/182/Planning-Board>**

## **AGENDA**

- 1. Call to Order.
- 2. Roll Call and Determination of Quorum.
- 3. Consent Agenda
  - 3.1 Approve Minutes August 1, 2023 Regular Business Meeting
- 4. Old Business
  - 4.1 Discuss and Act: Comprehensive Permit Review, Preliminary Plan Submittal for 173R Maple Avenue, AP 23, Lot 325 in the Residence-10 and Neighborhood Business Zone. Applicant proposes creation of four units on the site: Unit 1 is a first-floor apartment that would result from renovation of the existing garage onsite to an accessible LMI unit (1,440 square feet); Unit 2 is the existing market rate unit, which will remain unchanged (1,440 square feet); Units 3 & 4 will be new market-rate dwelling units attached to the existing two-car garage to the south (1,064 square feet each). Master Plan approval for this application was granted in June 2021.
- 5. New Business
  - 5.1 Discuss and Act: Administrative Subdivision for 359, 361/363 Maple Avenue, AP 22, Lot 377 in the Residence-10 and Neighborhood Business Zone.
  - 5.2 Discuss and Act: Minor Subdivision, Concept Review for 3 College Lane, AP 15, Lot 84, Residence-10 Zone. Applicant proposes to create one new residential lot for affordable housing.
  - 5.3 Discuss and Act: Minor Subdivision, Preapplication Meeting for Comprehensive Permit Project at 89 Maple Avenue, AP 23, Lot 58, Business District. Applicant proposes to convert a business to a two-family dwelling for affordable housing.
  - 5.4 Discuss and Act: Preapplication Meeting for Major Land Development Project at 33 Middle Highway (former Zion Bible College).
- 6. Reports from Planning Board Members: Housing Board liaison (Bacher); Economic Development Commission liaison (Rua); Resilience and Energy Committee liaison (Phipps); TRC member(s) (*vacant*); Harbor Commission liaison (Morley); Park and Recreation Commission (*vacant*); Zoning Board (Simms); Open Space Committee (Morley); Bike and Pedestrian Advisory Committee (Rua).
  - 6.1 Discuss and Act: Election of a Vice Chair
  - 6.2 Discuss and Act: Appointments for vacant liaison positions.
- 7. Comments Council Liaison & Director of Planning 7.1 Recap and Update on August 30, 2023 Town Council Special Meeting on 25 Watson Avenue.
- 8. Adjourn

ALL PLANNING BOARD MEETINGS ARE AUDIO-RECORDED. All town meetings are open to the public. The Town of Barrington will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal meeting participation. To request an accommodation to participate in a meeting, please submit your request by calling (401) 247-1900 Ext. 301 (Town Clerk's office) or write a letter to the Town Clerk, Town of Barrington, 283 County Road, Barrington, RI 02806. Deaf and Hard of Hearing callers can dial 711 "Relay" or through a relay service provider to request an accommodation at the Town Clerk's office. The Barrington Town Hall, Barrington Public Library, and Barrington Public Safety Building are accessible to people with disabilities.