# 04. Formal Extension for Belton Court Comp Permit

*Converted from PDF using pdfplumber*

---

## Page 1

Genevieve Elliot
From: William Landry <wrl@blishcavlaw.com>
Sent: Monday, March 23, 2026 12:41 PM
To: Amy Goins
Cc: Genevieve Elliot; Herbert Durfee III; Charles Kalocsay
Subject: Re: Formal Extension for Belton Court Comp Permit request
Amy Genevieve and Herb
This will more formally confirm that the current extension is in effect through May 25, 2026.
Sent from my iPhone
On Mar 23, 2026, at 11:52 AM, Amy Goins <amygoins@utrlaw.com> wrote:
Bill, just checking on this request as the Town continues to get inquiries on the extension in
writing from BRAD. Thanks.
Amy H. Goins, Esq.
Ursillo, Teitz & Ritch, Ltd.
2 Williams St.
Providence, RI 02903
(401) 331-2222
amygoins@utrlaw.com
1


## Page 2

2


## Page 3

From: Genevieve Elliot <GElliot@barrington.ri.gov>
Sent: Wednesday, March 18, 2026 11:59 AM
To: William Landry <wrl@blishcavlaw.com>; 'Charles Kalocsay' <charles.kalocsay@gmail.com>
Cc: Herbert Durfee III <hdurfee@barrington.ri.gov>; Amy Goins <amygoins@utrlaw.com>
Subject: Formal Extension for Belton Court Comp Permit request
Good afternoon,
At the public hearings on February 3 and March 3, you agreed to 30-day extensions of the
original 90-day review period for your Belton Court application. Based on those extensions,
I currently have the deadline as May 25, 2026.
Could you please provide written confirmation in the form of a wavier/adjustment of these
extensions for the record?
Thank you,
Genevieve Elliot
Planning and Zoning Assistant
Town of Barrington
(401)247-1900 ext. 326
This email has been scanned for spam and viruses by Proofpoint Essentials. Click here to
report this email as spam.
3

