Town of Barrington Planning Board

**Proposed Amendment to the**

***Land Development & Subdivision Regulations***

(Section 200 of the Town Code)

**Proposal in Concept**

Not Yet Fully Reviewed by the Town Solicitor

**Substantial Municipal Impact**

A project of significant municipal impact is defined where a development
proposal meets any of the criteria listed below and therefore may have
benefits or negative impacts within or beyond the borders of Barrington.

1\. Change the existing settlement pattern in the Town by:

• Shifting activity from an existing area of development to a major new
area of development.

• Locating in a new part of Town that does not presently contain
development of that type or scale.

2\. Significantly enhance or negatively affect the region's economy, or
a major sector thereof, by:

• Generating a new sector of economic activity in Town.

• Providing employment and/or training opportunities in a new occupation
or industry.

• Impacting the cost or availability of affordable housing in Town
affected by the project.

3\. Significantly enhance or negatively impact regionally significant
natural and cultural features as identified in the Comprehensive Plan.

4\. Significantly enhance or impact (beyond anticipated growth rates)
important services or service areas by completing or necessitating their
expansion, extension or relocation. Important regional services or
service areas include, but are not limited to public safety,
transportation services, business districts, education, health care, and
recreation.

• The development is located outside of a designated business center and

meets the following criteria: a residential development, located in a
state plan growth area where the proposed number of housing units
increases the Town's total housing units equal to or greater than 0.005%
based on the most recent US Census count. (6,386 units in 2020, 0.005% =
31.93 \~ 32 units)

• Commercial, educational, hotel/motel, industrial, office, retail,
service, or wholesale development involving employment opportunities for
"XX" or more individuals or "XX,XXX" SF or more of gross floor area.

• Construction of facilities or utilities servicing two or more
municipalities located in Town.

5\. A new or expanded power generating or transmission facility that
requires approval from the Public Utility Commission and at least one of
the following applies:

• It is visible from an adjacent municipality.

• It has an impact on two or more known or possible constraints
identified in any duly adopted state energy plan.

• It is a solar installation serving a customer base beyond the parcel
on which it's proposed to locate.

• It is a generation facility that requires upgrades to the transmission
grid beyond Town boundaries.

6\. A project that will materially affect the existing or potential
capacity to provide essential or required public services in any
adjacent municipality. In considering such development, the Planning
Board will consider secondary land use impacts that are attributable to
the development.[^1]

7\. A new or expanded telecommunications facility that requires Public
Utility Commission approval and at least one of the following applies:

• It is visible from any adjacent municipality.

• It provides service to two or more municipalities outside of Town.

Any one or combination of the above criteria may characterize a
development proposal having substantial municipal impact. These criteria
are not exclusive but should be considered as the principal indicators
of substantial impact.

ARTICLE XII -- Other Provisions and Requirements

§ 200-59.2 Requirements for Projects of Substantial Municipal Impact

> § 200-59.2-001 Definition of Substantial Municipal Impact
>
> \[See Above Threshold Definitions\]
>
> § 200-59.2-002 Comprehensive Plan Consistency
>
> Projects shall support the following goals:

a.  Reinforce compact, walkable development patterns and compatibility
    with surrounding neighborhoods.

b.  Improve public infrastructure and educational resources.

c.  Protect environmentally sensitive areas and enhance open space
    networks.

d.  Incorporate energy efficiency and climate-adaptive design.

> § 200-59.2-003 Environmental & Natural Resource Protection

a.  Must comply with RI Stormwater Manual and reduce runoff to protect
    Narragansett Bay.

b.  Avoid encroachment on freshwater wetlands or coastal buffers.

c.  Minimize removal of mature trees; provide native landscaping.

d.  Soil erosion control shall employ best management practices during
    construction.

> § 200-59.2-004 Traffic & Transportation Impacts

a.  Include study of AM/PM peak school traffic and proposed mitigation.

b.  Ensure safe and efficient bus, car, bicycle, and pedestrian access.

c.  Adequate parking for staff and visitors, including ADA compliance.

d.  Design safe routes to school to promote walking and biking from
    nearby neighborhoods.

> § 200-59.2-005 Infrastructure & Utilities

a.  Adequate capacity and connection to municipal facility and utility
    systems.

b.  Recommend high-performance building systems and solar readiness.

c.  Coordination with Fire and Police Departments for site access.

> § 200-59.2-006 Community Character & Compatibility

a.  Respectful of adjacent residential uses.

b.  Use fencing, landscaping, or berms, etc. where needed.

c.  Minimize off-site impacts from outdoor lighting (by being Dark Sky
    compliant) or HVAC systems.

> § 200-59.2-007 Public Engagement & Interagency Coordination

a.  Describe input gathered from neighbors and stakeholders.

b.  Describe coordination with Barrington School Department, Rhode
    Island Department of Education, Barrington Public Works, Recreation,
    and other municipal departments, commissions, boards, et al.

c.  Describe coordination with regional and state departments,
    commissions, et al.

> § 200-59.2-008 Other Matters Identified by the Planning Board or
> Town's Designated "Peer Review" Contractor[^2]

a.  Continued coordination with Town departments during final design.

b.  Incorporation of green infrastructure

c.  Electric vehicle infrastructure supporting Level 2 or higher:

    a.  Residential:

        i.  20% EV-ready

        ii. 10% EVSE-installed

    b.  Non-Residential:

        i.  10% EV-ready

        ii. 5% EVSE-installed

[^1]: Evaluating secondary land use impacts should be conducting using
    methodologies such as Robert Burchell's "The Fiscal Impact Handbook:
    Estimating Local Costs and Revenues of Land Development":
    <https://www.amazon.com/Fiscal-Impact-Handbook-Estimating-Development/dp/1412848601>

[^2]: Need provision mandating that "peer reviews" are paid by the
    applicant.
