# **BARRINGTON PLANNING BOARD**

# **Regular Business Meeting Minutes**

7 PM, Tuesday, August 6, 2024 Council Chamber at Town Hall 283 County Road, Barrington, RI

#### **1. Call to Order.**

Chair Roni Phipps called the meeting to order at 7:03 PM.

## **2. Roll Call and Determination of Quorum.**

*Present:* Lawrence Bacher, Douglas Caito, Peter Costa, Connor O'Neal, Roni Phipps (Chair)

*Also Present:* Teresa Crean, Town Planner; Isabelle Gillibrand, Planning/Zoning Assistant; Amy Gonis, Assistant Town Solicitor

*Absent:* Heather Kilmartin, Bill Kurtz, Brian Rua (Vice Chair), Rick Simms

Chair Phipps welcomed the newest member of the Planning Board, Connor O'Neal

#### **3. Consent Agenda**

Member Bacher comment on minutes – page 3, first full paragraph – main point was NOT about Hampden Meadows connection, it was RIDOT owns all the major north-south roads in Town, so far all the plans the Town makes will require their buy in.

**MOTION: Member Bacher, seconded by Member Costa, moved to accept the consent agenda amended. Motion carried unanimously.**

#### **5. Public Hearing (taken out of order)**

**5.1 Discuss and Act: Major Change Request for an approved preliminary plan decision – Book 1401, Page 227 in the Town's Land Evidence Records – at 3 College Lane – Assessor's Plat 15, Lot 84, R-10 District. The major change requests to change item #5 in the "Findings of Fact" to allow the provision of affordable housing on the existing house instead of the newly created lot should the lot be further subdivided, per 200-41(D) in the Land Development and Subdivision Regulations.**

*Present: Frank Judge, authorized agent for the applicant Julie and Angelo Raimondi, Scituate Surveys*

Town Planner Crean reviewed the major change, including the 2014 Preliminary Plan decision condition on 3 College Lane. Chair Phipps clarified with Town Planner Crean that in 2014 two lots fronting Primrose Hill Road were developed, and by subdividing 3 College Lane would create four lots total in that area (two from 2014, two from the proposed subdivision), and the three houses existing are all market rate.

Julie Raimondi provided additional details to the Board. Member Bacher asked the reason for the change. Raimondi noted Scituate Surveys was not kept in the loop, but imagined it was difficult to find builders who could meet the affordable housing numbers while still making a profit. The Board clarified with Raimondi that should 3 College Lane sell, the house would sell at the affordable unit, and the new lot would be market rate.

Member Bacher outlined his hesitations, including the existing dwelling having outdated utilities. Frank Judge responded that he is a building inspector and noted a new roof and some new utilities, and that it is a large house with a lot of potential. Town Planner Crean noted that the Judges have been put in touch with Melina Lodge with the Housing Network of Rhode Island. Member Bacher asked about the process of deed restriction with the affordable unit with development of the new lot. Solicitor Teitz clarified that it all depends on if the homeowner is eligible for low-to-moderate income (LMI) requirements.

Chair Phipps asked Solicitor Teitz about setting precedent. Solicitor Teitz responded yes, but also talked to the nature of small lots of the Town. Frank Judge asked about documentation and the need to appear before the Board again, and the Board agreed that they would need to see it in advance before deciding. Solicitor Teitz noted that the applicant would need to come back before the Planning Board to answer questions.

**MOTION: Member Caito seconded by Member Costa, moved to continue the public hearing to the September 10, 2024 meeting.** 

#### **4. New Business**

**4.1 Discuss and Act: Concept Review / Preapplication for 25 Watson Avenue Comprehensive Permit.** 

*Present: Frank Spinella, FJS Associates Craig Sutton, Stand Corp. Phil Hervey, Town Manager*

Frank Spinella gave background and professional experience, and FJS's involvement in the 25 Watson Avenue partnership with the Town. Spinella reviewed the layout plans for the pocket neighborhood, and biggest questions for FJS include utilities, timeline for demolition, and development schedule. Solicitor Teitz noted this application is rather unusual due to the history of the Planning Board's involvement with the Town property in directing the proposed concept and provided an overview on the process thus far and the purpose of this preapplication.

Spinella gave additional background to the 25 Watson Avenue property, and his involvement in Barrington with both the Sweetbriar and Palmer Pointe developments. Spinella noted they kept Union Studio as the architect, and Horsley Whitten as the engineer for the entire site.

Spinella noted the change to the layout plan includes parking so that all units had parking. The Board asked about impervious surface and stormwater runoff for the site. Solicitor Teitz noted the current site is the former monastery building and a giant parking lot and anticipates less runoff will occur with the proposed development. Member Bacher noted that it would be highly relevant to

him to know how the stormwater runoff is being handled and that there will not be more runoff than current.

Member Costa asked about the purpose of the park, and Spinella noted that has not yet been determined by the Town but is a conversation to continue. Chair Phipps noted her understanding is the park would be for passive recreation. Solicitor Teitz confirmed that the details on the park, such as amenities, are far down the line. Spinella noted that FJS wants to be the implementer of the Town's plan.

Member Bacher noted they will need to list any deviations from the RFP, and Spinella concurred. The Board asked about garages and parking spots. Spinella clarified that there is the same number of parking spots at thirty (30) spots total, and Sutton noted it will be a choice to have a garage or not. Spinella noted that this plan gives every resident the option to have a parking spot in front of their home.

The Board, Solicitor Teitz, and Spinella discussed the occupancy (i.e. long-term rental versus occupancy) and how the age-restriction would apply to the rental as well, and enforcement of such by the Town. Discussion then moved to the appraisal estimates, and confirmation that the market rate units will be compatible with the affordable units. Spinella clarified that the easement will be for utilities but not a pathway. Solicitor Teitz provided clarification on the proposed landscape buffers. Chair Phipps asked if there has been consideration about making some of the units one-story only, noting accessibility and cost concern about two-stories not being "downsizing." Spinella noted that the only way this development works is that the market rate units pay for the affordable units and are designed with the opportunity to live on one level with the option for more living space on the upper story. The Board confirmed with the Comprehensive Permit that a new zone (as noted in the RPF) is not needed, and discussed further the deed-restrictions that will be on the single-family lots as part of this Comprehensive Permit.

Member Bacher noted there should be a clearer statement on the intention and use of the park. Solicitor Teitz noted that the park hinges on other cost factors of the project, so there likely will not be any money from the project and will need to be part of the budgeting process, therefore will likely not have more than a statement on it being passive recreation. Solicitor Teitz clarified that the Department of Public Works (DPW) will maintain the park (as it is already maintaining the property). Chair Phipps concurred that the park must be dedicated as something and should prepare a statement as such. Spinella reiterated that the Town and FJS are one entity in this case with a common goal. The Board discussed the design options, and Spinella reiterated that they kept Union Studio on board to retain the institutional memory. Member O'Neal asked where the affordable units will be within the development, and Spinella noted it has not yet been determined.

The Board thanked FJS for working with the Town on this development. FJS responded that they are excited to work with the Town on this development, and this will be a project the Town will be proud of. Solicitor Teitz confirmed that the Comprehensive Permit approval will allow the Town to start selling the market rate units, which will then help to fund the demolition. Spinella also noted other avenues of funding available to assist. The Board asked about preference to Barrington residents. Spinella noted a website for interest will be available soon.

Kate Berard, 3 Chesire Drive, asked about native plantings, and the alleyways for refuse, and the space for the driveway. Spinella noted meeting with Public Works and the Fire Department will be part of the process leading up to the Preliminary Plan submittal. As for plantings, the team will have a landscape architect who will aim for native plantings. Berard made a comment on fair housing and preferences to Barrington residents.

## **4.2 Discuss and Act: Comprehensive Plan 2024-2025 (Standing Agenda Item).**

Town Planner Crean recapped July 23's CompPlanPalooza, noted the surveys that are live. Town Planner Crean noted the next steps include focus groups, interviews, and an in-person visit from the Michael Baker International team to the Planning Board at the October 1, 2024 Meeting. Town Planner Crean noted that the draft Housing Chapter and the draft Ready and Resilient Barrington Climate Action Plan will be ready in the fall to begin incorporating into the larger Comprehensive Plan.

Chair Phipps thanked Planning Staff for the event and offered the item of tabling at school Open Houses to reach more families and school-aged children.

#### **6. Comments – Board Member Reports, Council Liaison & Director of Planning**

Town Councilor Berard provided a Town Council update on their discussion on athletic fields. The vote in November will be twofold fold:

- 1) Do you approve of artificial turf at the Middle School?
- 2) Do you approve of artificial turf on any other municipal field?

Town Councilor Berard provided an update and thanked the Planning Staff on CompPlanPalooza.

Town Planner Crean noted that staff met with Assistant Solicitor Goins on the Technical Review Committee and Design Review Committee process and procedure, and that the test case will be a Comprehensive Permit Preliminary Plan submittal from 88 Maple Avenue.

Solicitor Teitz provided an update on the legislative changes that will be forthcoming, and that the Solicitor's office is working on interpretation and corresponding amendments.

The Board clarified the membership to the APA-RI, and members should be expecting an email invitation.

Ed McNaught, 266 Waseca Avenue, asked about 302 Waseca Avenue and the Comprehensive Permit approval the Board granted. Town Planner Crean noted that unfortunately the Preliminary Plan approval expired, and to submit any property maintenance complaints in writing to the office.

#### **7 . Adjourn**

**MOTION: Member Caito made a motion to adjourn at 8:53 PM and the meeting was adjourned.**