## **BARRINGTON PLANNING BOARD**

## **Regular Business Meeting**

7:00 PM, Tuesday, March 4, 2025 Council Chamber – Barrington Town Hall 283 County Road, Barrington, RI

**Meeting materials can be found online at<https://www.barrington.ri.gov/182/Planning-Board>**

## **AGENDA**

- 1. Call to Order.
- 2. Roll Call & Determination of Quorum
- 3. Approve Minutes:
  - a. January 7, 2025 Regular Meeting
  - b. February 4, 2025 Regular Meeting (pending availability)
  - c. February 13, 2025 CIP Subcommittee
  - d. February 18, 2025 Special Meeting
- 4. Old Business:
  - a. Discuss and Act: Amendments to Chapter 185: Zoning Ordinance (recommendation to Town Council)
  - b. Discuss and Act: Comprehensive Plan 2024-2025 Updates (Standing Agenda Item):
    - i. Housing & Neighborhoods (Stantec) Discuss and act to send the draft element to the state for preliminary review and comment.
    - ii. Barrington Today (MBI)
    - iii. Connected, Accessible Neighborhoods (MBI)
- 5. New Business:
  - a. Discuss and Act: Update on Carmelite Monastery 25 Watson Ave, including demolition status of former monastery, sale of lots, and status of pocket neighborhood
- 6. Other Business:
  - a. Reports Board Members, Council Liaison, Director of Planning
  - b. Future Agenda Items
  - c. April meeting date moved from April 1st to April 8th
- 7. Adjournment

ALL PLANNING BOARD MEETINGS ARE AUDIO-RECORDED. All town meetings are open to the public. The Town of Barrington will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal meeting participation. To request an accommodation to participate in a meeting, please submit your request by calling (401) 247-1900 Ext. 301 (Town Clerk's office) or write a letter to the Town Clerk, Town of Barrington, 283 County Road, Barrington, RI 02806. Deaf and Hard of Hearing callers can dial 711 "Relay" or through a relay service provider to request an accommodation at the Town Clerk's office. The Barrington Town Hall, Barrington Public Library, and Barrington Public Safety Building are accessible to people with disabilities. **Agenda posted on February 25, 2025** at Barrington Town Hall and the Barrington Public Library and on Secretary of State Web Site