## **BARRINGTON PLANNING BOARD**

## **Regular Business Meeting**

7:00 PM, Tuesday, October 7, 2025 Council Chamber – Barrington Town Hall 283 County Road, Barrington, RI

**Meeting materials can be found online at<https://www.barrington.ri.gov/182/Planning-Board>**

## **AGENDA**

- 1. Call to Order.
- 2. Roll Call & Determination of Quorum
- 3. Consent Agenda:
  - a. Approve Minutes:
    - i. September 9, 2025 Regular Meeting
- 4. New Business:
  - a. 2026 Meeting Calendar
  - b. Applications:
    - i. Public Hearing: Unified Development Review Preliminary Plan Minor Subdivision and 2 Dimensional Variances. Property known as 66 County Road, AP 27, Lot 067, Zoned: R-10. Requesting permission to subdivide existing Lot 67, at 15,954 sq ft, into two lots: Proposed Lot 1, to contain the existing multifamily home, and Proposed Lot 2, for the construction of a new single-family home. Seeking dimensional variances from the minimum lot size requirements—6,904 sq ft of relief for Proposed Lot 1 and 2,142 sq ft of relief for Proposed Lot 2. Matthew Antonio (applicant and owner), 47 Maple Avenue Suite 1, Barrington.
    - ii. Comprehensive Permit Pre-application property known as Carmelite Monastery, 25 Watson Avenue, AP 07, Lot 004, Zoned: R-40. Demolition of existing building to create 12 cottages (5 affordable at 120% AMI) and six house lots plus public park. FJS Associates, Ltd (applicant), 79 Peckham Lane, Middletown, RI 02842. Town of Barrington (owner), 283 County Road, Barrington.
- 5. Old Business:
  - a. Discussion and Action: Comprehensive Plan 2024-2025 Updates (Standing Agenda Item): Subject to Availability:
    - i. Natural Hazards and Climate Change
    - ii. Services and Facilities
    - iii. Land Use
- 6. Other Business:
  - a. Reports Board Members, Council Liaison, Director of Planning
  - b. Future Agenda Items
- 7. Adjournment

ALL PLANNING BOARD MEETINGS ARE AUDIO-RECORDED. All town meetings are open to the public. The Town of Barrington will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal meeting participation. To request an accommodation to participate in a meeting, please submit your request by calling (401) 247-1900 Ext. 301 (Town Clerk's office) or write a letter to the Town Clerk, Town of Barrington, 283 County Road, Barrington, RI 02806. Deaf and Hard of Hearing callers can dial 711 "Relay" or through a relay service provider to request an accommodation at the Town Clerk's office. The Barrington Town Hall, Barrington Public Library, and Barrington Public Safety Building are accessible to people with disabilities. **Agenda posted on September 30, 2025,** at Barrington Town Hall and the Barrington Public Library and on Secretary of State Web Site.