## **AGENDA ITEM #18: Presentation**: Day of Caring

**TM Comment:** Denise Alves, a member of the Day of Caring planning committee, will make a presentation on this year's event to be held on Monday, October 9, 2023.

**Motion: No motion provided.**

**AGENDA ITEM #19: Discuss and Act**: Big Brothers Big Sisters of Rhode Island to Place Donation Bin (Jen McAuslin Director of Donation Center Operations)

**TM Comment:** Big Brothers Big Sisters of Rhode Island will make a presentation on their programs, and request approval to place a donation bin on Town or school property. Locations mentioned include the Barrington Public Library, Barrington High School, Barrington Recycling Center. This will require additional review by the Town. The Library is not a good fit in my opinion. The Senior Center parking lot also is not a suitable site, as this is where the Dumpster for the building is located; plus, a composting drop-off site will be added near the Dumpster. It's possible the rear parking lot north of Kids Kove playground might work, next to the existing Dumpster. Input from DPW is needed to determine whether the Recycling Center is an appropriate location. I believe Council approval is needed given this is a potential long-term commitment for the use of Town property.

**Motion: To approve the placement of a Big Brothers Big Sisters of Rhode Island donation bin on Town property, subject to approval by the Town Administration.** 

**AGENDA ITEM #20: Discuss and Act:** 25 Watson Avenue / Carmelite Monastery Frequently Asked Questions and Next Steps

**TM Comment:** For the June 5, 2023, meeting the Town prepared a "FAQ" in consultation with the Town Solicitor, as requested by the Council. The Council briefly discussed the FAQ before continuing the item to the July 24th meeting. Since the June meeting the Town engaged Peter A. Scotti & Associates to complete an appraisal of the property based on the Planning Board-recommended plan (summarized below), a modified version of that plan, and several other options developed by Union Studio and presented to the Planning Board.

Planning Board Recommendation: On May 1, 2023, the Planning Board's motion approved on April 26th on the redevelopment of the former Carmelite Monastery property at 25 Watson Avenue was presented to the Town Council. The motion was as follows:

**Member Rua, seconded by Vice Chair Lucini, made a motion to recommend Concept Plan 2 for redevelopment at 25 Watson Avenue, that includes the following characteristics:**

- **The three lots to the south remain open space and are not developed.**
- **The pocket neighborhood is individually owned, via a condo association or single-family lots.**
- **The thru-road becomes a path, not a cut-through.**
- **There be a maximum of 10-12 units in the pocket neighborhood.**

- **There be two separate RFPs – one for the individual lots, one for the pocket neighborhood.**
- **Maintain Town control, such as deed restrictions or phased development.**
- **One of the lots and 25 percent of the pocket neighborhood be dedicated to low-to-moderate income (LMI) housing.**
- **Revise the lot lines for the lots on the south side, where the connecting road will not have vehicle access.**

## **Motion carried unanimously.**

The Town engaged Union Studio to develop illustrations of the Planning Board-recommended plan, as well as a plan with modifications that I requested (putting my "planner hat" on). These sketches were presented to the Council at a special meeting on August 30th held at Barrington Middle School.

The Council to date has taken no formal action endorsing any development concept, including the one based on the Planning Board motion. Also, the Planning Board has not yet been presented with the concept that was revised based on my input.

## I recommend:

- 1) Referring the modified Planning Board concept to the Planning Board for review and recommendations;
- 2) Approving up to \$6,000 from the 25 Watson financing to cover the cost of design services to incorporate any additional changes recommended by the Planning Board and/or the Town Council.

## More information:

- Union Studio's presentation on the revised concepts, presented April 26th: https://www.barrington.ri.gov/DocumentCenter/View/1117/23\_0426-CMC-PB-Presentation?bidId=
- Appraisal by Peter A. Scotti & Associates
- Additional materials on 25 Watson: https://www.barrington.ri.gov/361/25-Watson-Avenue.

**Motion 1: Refer the sketches by Union Studio of development at 25 Watson Avenue illustrating 14 cottage units and five single-family lots to the Planning Board for a recommendation.**

**Motion 2: Approve \$6,000 for architectural services to engage Union Studio to revise the conceptual plans for 25 Watson based on input from the Planning Board.**

**AGENDA ITEM # 21: Discuss and Act:** Policy Brief – Actions to Mitigate Noise Pollution for Health and Wellness of Barrington (M. Thorsson)

**TM Comment:** Magnus Thorsson, Chair of the Resilience and Energy Committee, has submitted a memorandum on behalf of the Committee with a bullet list of recommended action items, including several impacting Town operations such as having Public Works do a pilot test