**Motion: To authorize the Town to contract with consultant Karlo Berger to serve as Resilience Planner.**

**AGENDA ITEM #20: Discuss and Act:** Amended Electricity Aggregation Agreement

**TM Comment:** Good Energy, which the Town has engaged to perform consulting services in relation to its community electricity aggregation plan, recommends approval of an amendment to the agreement with the aggregation program's electricity supplier, NextEra. According to Jamie Rhodes of Good Energy, the "intention of the contract amendment would be to give the program an option to do either 6-month or 12-month rate, and then it adjusts the procurement schedule and amounts to match." According to Mr. Rhodes, the amendment in effect would allow NextEra to mirror RI Energy's electricity supply procurement schedule and provide more flexibility in obtaining competitive pricing.

**Motion: To approve the amendment to the Electricity Aggregation Supply Energy contract providing the option to procure electricity at either a 6-month or 12-month rate.** 

**AGENDA ITEM #21: Discuss and Act:** Town Council Approval for a Ballot Question for Placement on the Special Election November 7, 2023, Regarding the Construction, Improvement, Renovation. Alteration, of public schools and school facilities in Barrington

**TM Comment:** The School Committee is meeting on Thursday, July 20 th, to vote on a final "not to exceed" amount for the ballot question to be placed before voters for the November 7 th Special Election. The Council on May 8th approved the School Committee's request to submit to state legislators a resolution in support of enabling legislation for the bond referendum in the amount of \$250 million. The enabling legislation was subsequently approved by the General Assembly and signed by the Governor.

According to Assistant Solicitor Amy Goins, "the Council can approve a ballot question with a lower threshold than the \$250 million specified in the enabling legislation and can approve a threshold lower than what the School Committee sets on Thursday evening. The Council has the ultimate authority to approve the amount that is presented to the voters for approval, provided that the amount does not exceed what the General Assembly has allowed."

| Motion: To approve placement of a bond question on the November 7, 2023, Special    |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Election ballot regarding the construction, improvement, renovation, and alteration |
| of public schools and school facilities in Barrington, in the amount of             |
| \$                                                                                  |

**AGENDA ITEM #22. Discuss and Act:** 25 Watson Avenue / Carmelite Monastery Frequently Asked Questions and Next Steps

**TM Comment:** For the June 5, 2023, meeting the Town prepared a "FAQ" in consultation with the Town Solicitor, as requested by the Council. The Council briefly discussed the FAQ before continuing the item to the July 24th meeting. Since the June meeting the Town engaged Peter A. Scotti & Associates to complete an appraisal of the property based on the

Planning Board-recommended plan (summarized below), a modified version of that plan, and several other options developed by Union Studio and presented to the Planning Board.

Planning Board Recommendation: On May 1, 2023, the Planning Board's motion approved on April 26th on the redevelopment of the former Carmelite Monastery property at 25 Watson Avenue was presented to the Town Council. The motion was as follows:

**Member Rua, seconded by Vice Chair Lucini, made a motion to recommend Concept Plan 2 for redevelopment at 25 Watson Avenue, that includes the following characteristics:**

- **The three lots to the south remain open space and are not developed.**
- **The pocket neighborhood is individually owned, via a condo association or single-family lots.**
- **The thru-road becomes a path, not a cut-through.**
- **There be a maximum of 10-12 units in the pocket neighborhood.**
- **There be two separate RFPs one for the individual lots, one for the pocket neighborhood.**
- **Maintain Town control, such as deed restrictions or phased development.**
- **One of the lots and 25 percent of the pocket neighborhood be dedicated to low-to-moderate income (LMI) housing.**
- **Revise the lot lines for the lots on the south side, where the connecting road will not have vehicle access.**

**Motion carried unanimously.** 

The Council has taken no action on the Planning Board recommendation.

## More information:

- Union Studio's presentation on the revised concepts, presented April 26th : https://www.barrington.ri.gov/DocumentCenter/View/1117/23\_0426-CMC-PB-Presentation?bidId=
- Appraisal by Peter A. Scotti & Associates
- Additional materials on 25 Watson: https://www.barrington.ri.gov/361/25-Watson-Avenue.

**Motion: No motion provided.** 

**AGENDA ITEM #23: Discuss and Act:** Request \$30,000 to fund a consultant to assist with housing initiatives. Funding support is requested from the \$500,000 authorized for housing-related programs at the 2021 FTM.