## **BARRINGTON PLANNING BOARD**

## **Regular Business Meeting**

7:00 PM, Tuesday, May 6, 2025 Council Chamber – Barrington Town Hall 283 County Road, Barrington, RI

**Meeting materials can be found online at<https://www.barrington.ri.gov/182/Planning-Board>**

## **AGENDA**

- 1. Call to Order.
- 2. Roll Call & Determination of Quorum
- 3. Approve Minutes:
  - a. March 4, 2025 Regular Meeting
  - b. April 8, 2025 Regular Meeting
  - c. January 7, 2025 Regular Meeting approved copy for possible reconsideration
- 4. Public Hearing:
  - a. Discuss and Act: Unified Development Review Revised Special Use Permit and Preliminary Plan. Rhode Island Country Club, Inc., 150 Nayatt Road, AP 06, Lot 001 (Parcel for Proposed Development) – Demolition of existing storage cart barn, accessory sheds, equipment building, and concrete pads. Proposing a new cart barn, tennis court, multi-use building and relocated paddle ball court. Resurface existing paved parking area and add additional spaces southwest of the cart barn. Installation of stormwater best management practices, utilities, and associated landscaping.
  - b. Discuss and Act: Preliminary Plan for Minor Subdivision Submittal for 165 & 163 New Meadow Road, AP 32, Lot 32 & 33, R-25. Adjust lot lines between lots 32 and 33 to reconfigure the lot lines to separate the two uses and keeping the overhead utility wires serving the single-family dwelling on lot 33 and keeping the existing Temple improvements and outdoor worship space with the Temple property. No development is proposed.
- 5. Old Business:
  - a. Discussion and Action: Comprehensive Plan 2024-2025 Updates (Standing Agenda Item):
- 6. Other Business:
  - a. Reports Board Members, Council Liaison, Director of Planning
  - b. Future Agenda Items
- 7. Adjournment

ALL PLANNING BOARD MEETINGS ARE AUDIO-RECORDED. All town meetings are open to the public. The Town of Barrington will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal meeting participation. To request an accommodation to participate in a meeting, please submit your request by calling (401) 247-1900 Ext. 301 (Town Clerk's office) or write a letter to the Town Clerk, Town of Barrington, 283 County Road, Barrington, RI 02806. Deaf and Hard of Hearing callers can dial 711 "Relay" or through a relay service provider to request an accommodation at the Town Clerk's office. The Barrington Town Hall, Barrington Public Library, and Barrington Public Safety Building are accessible to people with disabilities. **Agenda posted on April 29, 2025** at Barrington Town Hall and the Barrington Public Library and on Secretary of State Web Site