# **BARRINGTON PLANNING BOARD**

## **Regular Business Meeting Minutes**

7 PM, Tuesday, January 7, 2025 Council Chamber at Barrington Town Hall 283 County Road, Barrington, RI

#### **1. Call to Order.**

Chair Roni Phipps called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM.

#### **2. Roll Call and Determination of Quorum.**

*Present:* Lawrence Bacher, Douglas Caito, Peter Costa, Heather Kilmartin, Bill Kurtz, Connor O'Neal, Roni Phipps (Chair), Brian Rua (Vice Chair), Richard Simms

*Also Present:* Herb Durfee, Town Planner; Genevieve Elliot, Planning/Zoning Assistant; Amy Gonis, Assistant Town Solicitor; Liana Cassar, Town Council

#### **3. Consent Agenda**

- **a. Approval of Minutes:**
  - **i. November 5, 2024 (Regular Meeting)**
  - **ii. November 20, 2024 (Work Session)** *no minutes*
  - **iii. December 3, 2024 (No Meeting, Cancelled)**

There was discussion by Board Chair Roni Phipps and member Larry Bacher about the need for minutes to be more precise to ensure the basis for decision making. Town Planner Herb Durfee agreed and asked for any specific changes they would like to see to be sent to him.

**MOTION: Member Bacher seconded by Member Caito, moved to accept the minutes Motion carried unanimously.**

#### **4. Old Business:**

**a. Discuss and Act: Amendments to Chapter 185: Zoning Ordinance (recommendation to Town Council)**

Solicitor Amy Goins asked to postpone the discussion until the next meeting because of a new application for the Bay Spring Crossing zoning amendment that should be submitted before the Council along with the housekeeping zoning amendments. Goins also noted she still needs to get revisions on the DPR regulation ordinance.

The Board agreed to move the discussion to the February meeting. No motion was made.

**b. Discuss and Act: Comprehensive Plan 2024-2025 (Standing Agenda Item)**

Chair Phipps expressed concern about the timeline for the Michael Baker report and the need for regular updates.

# **i. Discuss and Act: Updates on Elements and Process, including the Steering Committee**

Town Planner Durfee explained the current status of the comprehensive plan and the housing element being prepared by Stantec.

Chair Phipps and Town Planner Durfee continued to discuss the need for a more precise timeline and regular updates to ensure the plan moves forward.

Member Bacher highlighted that there are errors in the projection of future housing needs in the plan and the need for clear documentation of decisions and discussions.

No motion was made.

## **5. New Business:**

- **a. Discuss and Act: Technical Review Committee Applications:**
  - **i. Jeffrey C. Bardell**

Jeff Bardell introduced himself and his qualifications for the Technical Review Committee including a degree in civil engineering, contractor and real estate developer. Bardell further explained the local New England projects they have been a part of.

**MOTION: Member Douglas Caito moved to appoint Jeff Bardell to the Technical Review Committee, motion was seconded by Member Bacher.**

#### **ii. Joe Merrill**

Chair Phipps explained that the applicant had sent a note explaining their absence.

#### **b. Applications:**

i. **Unified Development Review – Revised Special Use Permit and Master Plan. Rhode Island Country Club, Inc.,** 150 Nayatt Road, AP 06, Lot 001 (Parcel for Proposed Development) – Demolition of existing storage cart barn, accessory sheds, equipment building, and concrete pads. Proposing a new cart barn, tennis court, multi-use building and relocated paddle ball court. Resurface existing paved parking area and add additional spaces southwest of the cart barn. Installation of stormwater best management practices, utilities, and associated landscaping.

*Present:* Joe Malo, Licensed PE Paul Ryan, Attorney of Applicant Town Planner Durfee explained the Unified Development Review (UDR) process and its similarities to the comprehensive permit process.

Solicitor Goins and Member Bacher discussed the technical deficiencies in the notice and the need for public hearings to be notated in all postings about the meeting.

Member Bacher asked if the Board would be able to vote, noting that department heads and the TRC haven't given their comments yet. Solicitor Goins explained that the Board is not barred from action without those comments, and it is up to the Board if they wish to hear the applicant. Goins did note that the Board can request the comments for the preliminary plan stage.

Attorney for the applicant, Paul Ryan, addressed the Board about the handout he put together to address the new statute of Rhode Island General Law discussing UDR, and Attorney Ryan reiterated the difference between the Master Plan phase for a land development project and the comprehensive permit process.

The Board discussed Attorney Ryan's argument as to the special use permit criteria. Solicitor Goins concluded that Attorney Ryan is pointing out that the ordinance does not outline any specific criteria for the golf course, so they should default to the general standards for special use permits, which is set forth in 185 73.

Solicitor Goins suggested that they could grant the special use permit or wait until the preliminary plan stage.

#### **Technical Presentation on the County Club Project:**

Joe Malo, Licensed PE, presented the technical aspects of the county club project, explaining they are not intensifying any uses, just upgrading and reconsolidating.

Member Richard Simms and Member Heather Kilmartin raised concerns about the visibility of the new structures and the need for landscaping.

Solicitor Goins suggested that the Board require a detailed landscaping plan at the preliminary plan stage and request to have a landscape architect present.

Member Kilmartin addressed the parking with PE Malo, stating that since they were adding to the square footage of the buildings, that the requirement for parking goes up, which Malo states they will exceed requirements. Member Kilmartin wanted to know with the addition of more concrete areas, how it would impact the runoff. Licensed PE Malo explained that they will have a storm water report at the Preliminary phase.

Town Planner Durfee clarifies that the applicant will need to revise sheet C200 for the Preliminary Plan phase to include the net and proposed changes.

The Board raised concerns about building elevations. Town Planner Durfee suggested to the Board that they make sure that the applicant includes elevations as part of their application, including showing the development from different angles like the south and east sides.

Solicitor Goins clarified that while they are discussing the application as a whole, when it comes time for any motions, they need to consider the special needs permit first before the land development project aspect.

Chair Phipps asked Solicitor Goins to explain if they were able to open the floor up to the public since the language of it being a public hearing was omitted from the agenda and newspaper ad. Solicitor Goins explained that as a UDR and part of a planning board review, the public hearing is implied. Goins suggested that the Board conduct this as a public hearing, but also do the preliminary plan stage as a public hearing, even though normally only the one public hearing is needed. It was also mentioned to make sure it is properly notated in all announcements for that meeting to the public.

#### *The Chair opened the public hearing.*

Jody Tanzman, 166 Nayatt Road, thanked the Board. Tanzman raised two questions; one about if there was asbestos in the buildings that are to be demolished. Tanzman's second question was questioning storage of chemicals used for the golf course and making sure its proximity to cart barn was not close since the carts used lithium batteries.

The RICC Official responded to Tanzman's first question by letting her know that the buildings were inspected, and all came back clean for asbestos. To answer Tanzman's second question the Official stated that all chemicals were being relocated to the central facility in the middle of the golf course.

Jagjeet Sehra, 206 Nayatt Road, introduced himself and stated that he had emailed the Town Planner prior to the meeting regarding his questions about how the golf carts are being washed. Sehra explained that the activity itself should be screened and raised concerns about the oils and lubricants running off the carts from the tires of the vehicles when washed.

Joe Malo explained that the cart barn to the south is where the wash station is to be located, and they are going to screen the south side as well as provide lots of landscaping to buffer the southeast corner. Malo acknowledged that visual representation will be available in the next phase of the project. Malo explained that the carts are electric and are to be power washed with no additional chemicals used for cleaning.

Member Bacher and Chair Phipps questioned Malo about the use of detergents or solvents to wash the golf carts and how that would create a disposal issue. Malo explained again that no detergents or solvents are being used that they are just power washing the golf carts.

Town Planner Durfee suggested that the applicant stipulate that they would be willing to use organic or non-toxic chemicals in the Preliminary Plan.

Jagjeet Sehra suggested that the applicant look into the cart manufactures' recommendations for washing the carts.

*The Chair closed the public hearing.* 

Solicitor Goins suggested the Board consider the special use permit aspect to change an existing use permit to a special use permit.

**MOTION: Member Larry Bacher seconded by Vice Chair Rua, moved** to conditionally approve the Special Use permit for the Major Land Development Project submitted at 150 Nayatt Road conditioned on final plan approval of the Master Plan of the major land development project. No dimensional variance is requested or approved.

In conditionally approving this application for a special use permit, the Planning Board finds:

- (1) The use is authorized under §185-8C in the RE district.
- (2) With compliance with Master Plan conditions of approval it will be in general harmony with the purposes of chapter 185 as expressed in §183-3, especially purposes A, B, C, D, E, F, G, K, L and M.
- (3) The applicant meets the criteria of §185-73.1J by providing a list of chemicals applied to the grounds.

#### VOTE FOR THE SPECIAL USE PERMIT

Kurtz – nay Simms – nay Bacher – yay Phipps – yay Kilmartin – yay

Rua – yay

Caito - nay

**MOTION: Member Larry Bacher seconded by Vice Chair Rua,** to refer the list of chemicals to the Conservation Commission for discussion and comment to be considered at the next stage of review.

The Board discussed including the Conservation Commissions comments as part of the requirement for the next phase approval.

Chair Phipps took a vote: Phipps – yay Bacher – yay Kilmartin – yay Rua – yay Kurtz – nay Simms – nay Caito – nay

**MOTION: Member Larry Bacher seconded by Member Kilmartin, moved to approve the Master Plan for the Major Land Development Project submittal at150 Nayatt Road with the following conditions:**

- (1) Maintain or replace existing street lighting at the property entrance to Nayatt Road.
- (2) Sidewalks to comply with §200-45.1 Standards for sidewalks.
- (3) Storm drainage system to comply with §200-49 Storm Drainage Systems incorporating Best Management Practices. Specifically include oil separators as required by §200-49E
- (4) Provide a plan of the proposed sanitary sewer and the connection with details for approval of DPW for the Preliminary plan submittal.
- (5) Sanitary sewer connections shall be provided with cleanouts and backflow preventers to the satisfaction of DPW.
- (6) Secure a sewer permit from DPW. Comply with DPW requirements for inspection of all work.
- (7) Provide an erosion and sediment control plan as required by §200-50
- (8) Buildings design to comply with §200-51.1A Building Standards particularly in regard to paragraphs (2), (5), (7), (8) and (9).
- (9) Electric transformer to be screened in compliance with §200-51.1A(9)
- (10)Landscaping to comply with §200-51.1C(2) Landscaping
- (11)Provide protection for street trees on Nayatt Road adjacent to the current paddle ball courts (snow fencing or equivalent) and indicate this on the Preliminary submission.
- (12)Consider subsurface tree survival infrastructure (Permavoid or similar) for tree plantings on parking islands. Provide revised detailed specifications for the Preliminary submission.
- (13)Lighting to comply with §200-51.1C(2)(g) including "Dark Sky" guidelines
- (14)Submit a revised parking plan to comply with §200-51.1C(2)(c) Parking Areas and with §200-51.1C(2)(k), (l), (m) and (n)
- (15)Show storage areas on the revised plan for Preliminary submission. Service area south of the proposed Cart Barn to be screened to comply with §200-51.1C(2)(d).

- (16)All improvements are to be constructed in compliance with §200-52 Required Improvements
- (17)Fire Department to approve building layout.
- (18)Review with staff applicability of 200-45.2 Bicycle Standards.

In reaching this decision, the Planning Board finds:

- 1) The proposed development is consistent with the comprehensive community plan
- (2) The proposed development is in compliance with the standards and provisions of the municipality's zoning ordinance;
- (3) There will be no significant negative environmental impacts from the proposed development as shown on the final plan, with all required conditions for approval;
- (4) The proposed land development has adequate and permanent physical access to a public street.

VOTE FOR THE MASTER PLAN APPROVAL:

Kurtz – nay

Simms – yay

Bacher – yay

Phipps – yay

Kilmartin – yay

Rua – yay

Caito - yay

Member Kurtz added to the record that his nay was not in opposition to the project, but with the Board's process.

> **c. Discuss and Act: Appoint Subcommittee for the FY2026 Capital Improvement Program (CIP)**

**MOTION: Member Simms seconded by Member Caito, moved to appoint Vice Chair Rua, along with Members Kilmartin and Bacher.**

**Vote: all in favor**

**d. Discuss and Act: Receive Application from Bay Spring Crossing Condominium Assoc. (BSCCA) for Proposed Zoning Amendment and Intention to Offer the Town Council Findings and Recommendations as Required** 

Planner Durfee explained the statute timetable for which the Board must make its recommendation to the Town Council on the BSCCA proposal for a zoning amendment.

Member Bacher questioned if The Board has the applicant's consent to delay the public hearing, to which Planner Durfee confirms they do. Durfee also explained he would be reaching out to BSCCA to ensure the President of that association was not acting out of their own interest.

Solicitor Goins added that under Rhode Island General Law, when someone applies to the Town Council for a zoning amendment, whether it's a map change, a text change, or both, if the Council says no, it cannot be appealed.

The Board and Planner Durfee discuss the importance of having both the BSCCA voices heard at the February meeting, but also those parties in opposition to the zoning amendment. Solicitor Goins mentions that the public hearing for this is not required and suggests that opposing parties be individually invited to attend by the Planning Board.

**MOTION: Member Simms, seconded by Member Kurtz, moved to request that before the February meeting that the Town Planner send an invitation to the parties involved at the invitation of the Board. Motion carried unanimously.**

#### **6. Other Business:**

**a. Reports – Board Members, Council Liaison, Director of Planning**

Planner Durfee went over items that would be included for the February meeting, such as a draft of the State Transportation Improvement Plan (STIP). Durfee also requested submissions for the pocket property at AP 23 Lot 323, stating he wanted input on how he would be drafting that final plan approval.

The Board briefly discussed artificial turf and how it would be an agenda item at the January school committee meeting.

Planner Durfee introduced the new assistant in the Planning and Zoning department, Genevieve Elliot, to the Board.

#### **Public Comment for Items not on Agenda**

None

#### **7 . Adjourn**

| MOTION:<br>Secretary Simms, made a motion to adjourn at 9:38 PM, seconded by Chair<br>Phipps and the meeting was adjourned. |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                                                                             |
|                                                                                                                             |
|                                                                                                                             |
|                                                                                                                             |
|                                                                                                                             |
|                                                                                                                             |
|                                                                                                                             |
|                                                                                                                             |
|                                                                                                                             |
|                                                                                                                             |
|                                                                                                                             |
|                                                                                                                             |
|                                                                                                                             |
|                                                                                                                             |