# 01. PB 03-31-2026 Agenda_Final

*Converted from PDF using pdfplumber*

---

## Page 1

BARRINGTON PLANNING BOARD
Special Business Meeting
7:00 PM, Tuesday, March 31, 2026
Council Chamber – Barrington Town Hall
283 County Road, Barrington, RI
Meeting materials can be found online at https://www.barrington.ri.gov/182/Planning-Board
AGENDA
1. Call to Order.
2. Roll Call & Determination of Quorum
3. Consent Agenda:
a. Discussion and Action:
i. Draft Barrington Signage diagnostic and design study
ii. Draft Barrington Signage Ordinance
b. Discussion and Action: Comprehensive Plan 2024-2025 Updates (Standing Agenda Item):
Subject to Availability:
i. Land Use
ii. Maps
4. Other Business:
a. Reports – Board Members, Council Liaison, Director of Planning
b. Future Agenda Items
5. Adjournment
ALL PLANNING BOARD MEETINGS ARE AUDIO-RECORDED. All town meetings are open to the public. The Town of Barrington will
provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal meeting participation. To request an accommodation to participate in a meeting, please submit
your request by calling (401) 247-1900 Ext. 301 (Town Clerk’s office) or write a letter to the Town Clerk, Town of Barrington, 283 County Road,
Barrington, RI 02806. Deaf and Hard of Hearing callers can dial 711 “Relay” or through a relay service provider to request an accommodation at the
Town Clerk’s office. The Barrington Town Hall, Barrington Public Library, and Barrington Public Safety Building are accessible to people with
disabilities. Agenda posted on March 24, 2026 at Barrington Town Hall and the Barrington Public Library and on Secretary of State Web Site.

