# 3.a.ii. Barrington Sign Ordinance-draft-WF03-12-26

*Converted from DOCX using python-docx*

---

Barrington Sign Ordinance (3/12/2026 draft)

2026 Sign Ordinance to Proposed Sign Ordinance Crosswalk

Barrington Sign Ordinance (proposed)
March 12, 2026 draft

§ 185-5 	Definitions
[Delete all of the terms in the overall zoning definition section §185-5 that are now in §185-89, specifically: A-Frame Sign; Backlit; Billboard; Bracket; Flag; Sign; Sign, Directory; Sign, Face; Sign Face, Area of; Sign, Freestanding; Sign, Illuminated Box or Panel; Sign, Illuminated Letters; Sign, Ladder; Sign, Neon; Sign, Protecting; Sign, Temporary Event; Window Sign.]


§ 185-76	Standards relating to signage requirements.
In addition to the standards of § 185-73, when reviewing a special use permit application for relief of the requirements of Article XVII, Signs, of this chapter, the Zoning Board of Review and for signs requiring Technical Review Committee Approval under § 185-90 the TRC shall require that the applicant demonstrate the following, where relevant:
(1) That the establishment of the sign without a Special Use Permit will result in significant damage to the associated business.
(2) That the establishment of the sign which is larger than the size allowed by right will result in a clear visual improvement to a site by virtue of its replacement of an existing nonconforming sign.
(3) That the location or illumination of a sign is necessary to achieve its intended visual effect.
(4) Every sign shall have appropriate scale and proportion in its design and in its visual relationship to buildings and surroundings.
(5) Every sign shall be designed as an integral architectural element of the building and site to which it principally relates.
(6) The colors, materials and lighting of every sign shall be restrained and harmonious with the building and site to which it principally relates.
(7) Use as few sign graphic elements as possible to convey the sign's major message  and layout those elements in reasonable proportion to the area of the sign face
(8) Common signs shall be designed so that all signs are harmonious with each other in terms of number, type and font size to the extent feasible, and size and location, with no review however of the message or content of a sign.

The company standards of a business operating as a franchise shall not be considered grounds for the granting of relief from the requirements of Article XVII relating to the size, placement or illumination of any sign.


§ 185-8 to -105 	[Current] Signage Ordinance
[Delete §185-8 to -105 in its entirety and replace it with the following.]


§ 185-88	Intent and purposes.
Barrington’s intention is to regulate the time, place and manner of signage in a content neutral manner to build on Barrington’s character and sense of place as a small New England coastal community, which requires strict limitation of all signs and:
Create clear and uniform standards, for each use and each zoning district, that permit reasonable uses of signs consistent with that character and enhancing property values.
Avoid sign clutter, unsightly, or confusing elements that could distract from Barrington’s character and appearance and contribute to driving hazards.
Ensure an appropriate level of review and approval of sign permits, with the least amount of regulations necessary to achieve these purposes.


§ 185-89	Signage definitions.
In addition to other zoning Definitions (§185-5), the following words and phrases have the meaning respectively ascribed to them for the signage sections of zoning. 

A-FRAME SIGN (A/K/A sandwich board signs)
Two-sided sign, hinged or attached at the top of the sign panels, located in front of or adjacent to a building, with some kind of message, but without internal illumination nor any adornment (e.g., balloons, pennants, decorative bulbs) that is not part and flush with the frame.

AWNING SIGN
Any sign placed on the face of an architectural projection or shelter projecting from and supported by the exterior wall of a building and composed of a covering of rigid or non-rigid materials and/or fabric on a supporting framework that may be either permanent or retractable.

BACKLIT OR INTERNALLY LIT SIGN
A sign or an awning with a luminous covering material obtained by a source of illumination contained within its framework, potentially creating a halo around sign elements.

BANNER AND FLAGS
A flexible substrate on which copy or graphics may be displayed.

BILLBOARD (A/K/A Outdoor Advertising)
An outdoor sign, display, billboard, Commercial Variable Message Signs (CVMS), Digital Billboard (DBB), Electronic Billboard (EBB) or which is visible from off the property that contains the sign other than signage specifically allowed in Barrington’s zoning, including but not limited to “Outdoor Advertising” as defined by Rhode Island General Laws §24-10.1-2.(4).

BRACKET
A device used to attach and support a sign face to a building, poles, or other structures other than screws or bolts.

CANOPY (Attached)
A multi-sided overhead structure or architectural projection supported by attachment to a building on one or more sides and either cantilevered from such building or also supported by columns at additional points. The surface(s) and/or soffit of an attached canopy may be illuminated by means of internal or external sources of light. 

CANOPY (Freestanding) 
A multi-sided overhead structure supported by columns, but not enclosed by walls. The surface(s) and or soffit of a freestanding canopy may be illuminated by means of internal or external sources of light. 

CANOPY SIGN
A sign attached to the visible surface(s) of an attached or freestanding canopy.

CHANGEABLE MESSAGE SIGN (CMS)
A sign with the capability of content change by means of manual or remote input. Changeable Message Signs (CMS) include Dynamic Message Signs (DMS), Electronic Message Centers (EMC), Electronic Paper Signage (EPS), Variable Message, Animated, and Movable Text signs. These include:
Manually Activated changeable signs whose message copy or content can be changed manually on a display surface.
Electronically Activated changeable signs whose message copy or content can be changed by means of remote electrically energized on-off switching combinations of alphabetic or pictographic components arranged on a display surface. Illumination may be integral to the components. Such as characterized by lamps or other light-emitting devices; or it may be from an external light source designed to reflect off the changeable component display. 
Electronic Paper Signage (EPS) is a changeable sign that looks as if it is a monochrome sheet of paper without the color or brightness that can be distracting from other changeable signs.

COMMON SIGN
Sign(s) serving individual shopping centers on one or more lots with more than one principal use or establishment.

DIRECTORY SIGN
A sign on a building or free standing which identifies the occupants and their location within a building.

FREESTANDING SIGN (A/K/A Ground, Monument, or Pole Sign)
A sign principally supported by one or more columns, poles, braces, monument base, or other supports placed in or upon the ground, not a projecting or blade sign attached to a building.

NEON TUBES AND NEON SIGN
A gas-filled tube sign subjected to high voltage with various colors depending on the type of gas and the color of the tubing.

PORTABLE SIGN
A freestanding sign not permanently affixed, anchored, or secured to the ground or structure on the lot it occupies.

PROJECTING SIGN (A/K/A Blade Sign)
A sign that projects horizontally and perpendicular from the vertical side of a structure below its roofline or vertically below a roof or building projection, with adequate clearance between the sign and the grade below the sign, and including barber poles and other accessory structures.

PUBLIC ART
Artistic and cultural expressions of all artistic disciplines, including murals, visual, performative, and those rooted in ritual, which engage and/or activate places that are open and available for the public to happen upon.

SIGN
Any sign face and supporting structure, including brackets, posts, guy wires, and other appurtenances.

SIGN BAND
A horizontal segment of the storefront above any first floor display windows and below any second-floor windows or building cornice. This area is designated by a distinct band of precast, concrete, plaster, wood, or a change in pattern of bricks or other materials and is the typical location for the business sign.

SIGN FACE
Any picture, symbol, emblem, letter, object or decorative device, or combination of these, whether illuminated or not illuminated, designed to be freestanding or used on the exterior of a building or seen from the exterior of a building. A sign face may convey a message to the public concerning the identification of the premises or to advertise or promote the interests of any private or public firm, person or organization, or may be purely decorative.

SIGN, AREA OF
An area enclosed by the exterior edges of the sign, excluding any supporting structure. A double-sided sign face shall be deemed to be one sign having an area equal to the area of one side. Any wall work incidental to the decoration of a sign, or any unnecessary structural framework that serves primarily to enlarge the visual effect of the sign, shall be included when measuring the area of signs permitted under this article.

SIGN, ILLUMINATED 
A sign using artificial lighting, projecting through its surface(s) internally or reflecting externally lighting off its surface(s).

SIGN, ILLUMINATED LETTERS
An internally illuminated sign consisting of individual letters with translucent faces, each containing lighting elements.

RESIDENTIAL SIGN
A sign on a property used for residential purposes in any zoning district and a sign for any use within a residential zoning district.

ROOF SIGN
A sign mounted on any portion of a building roof or on the uppermost edge of a parapet wall of a building which is wholly or partially supported by such building, excluding signs mounted on mansard facades, pent eaves, and architectural projections (e.g., canopies).

TABLET
Building tablet with the building name and/or date when cut into a masonry surface or constructed of bronze and made a permanent and integral part of a building.

TEMPORARY SIGN
A sign or banner erected for a limited period of time, including corrugated plastic (coroplast), and other temporary or permanent materials, including political speech, for sale signs, yard sales, agents performing work on a structure (e.g., contractor, builder, painter, architect), holiday lighting, and any other messaging.

TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES (A/K/A Directional Signs)
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTC, Federal Highway Administration and/or the Rhode Island State Traffic Commission) consistent signage for the purpose of providing pedestrian, bicycle, and vehicular direction and/or orientation but no other advertising, with no more than one entrance/exit sign per legal driveway. 

WALL SIGN
A sign or letters placed flush on the building projecting no more than 12 inches and parallel to the face of the building.

WAYFINDING AND GATEWAY PUBLIC SIGNS
Signs installed by or at the direction of a municipality or state government entity on the public right-of-way for wayfinding and character defining purposes.

WINDOW SIGN
A sign permanently or temporarily affixed to or painted on the surface of the glass of any part of any establishment. Signs visible through a window on a permanent basis are considered window signs even though they may not be affixed directly to the glass.
§ 185-90	Table of Allowable Signs.
Signage is allowed as shown table* below, subject to all other zoning and code standards.
* Except when otherwise noted, only one of each sign type is allowed.
EXEMPT = No permit required
A = Allowed by-right with a permit from the building official required
TRC = By-right if Technical Review Committee finds that the design standards are met 
SU = Special use permit required from the Zoning Board of Review
NO = Not allowed

§ 185-91	Table of Signage Dimensional Regulations.


§ 185-92	Sign Design Standards.
All new and replacement signs subject to this chapter shall comply with all standards in this ordinance. In addition to other standards that apply to all signs, Sign Design Standards in this section apply to all signs that require Technical Review Committee approval and/or Special Use Permit. In addition, signs that require Special Use Permits in the Table of Allowable Sign (§185-90) must also prove that they meet all of the standards in (§185-76). These standards provide for sign design that meet the intent of sign regulations while not regulating content or messaging. 

Signs shall be designed to have appropriate scale and proportion in their design and  visual relationship to buildings and surroundings (see Figure 1).  

Every sign shall be designed as an integral architectural element of the building and site to which it principally relates (see Figure 2 TO BE ADDED).

The colors, materials and lighting of every sign shall be restrained and harmonious with the building and site to which it principally relates  (see Figure 3 TO BE ADDED).

The number of graphic elements on a sign shall be held to the minimum needed to convey the sign's major message and shall be composed in proportion to the area of the sign face, with no review however of the message or content of a sign (see Figure 4).


Where more than one wall or projecting sign is placed on a structure, signs of the same sign type (wall or projecting) shall be of uniform shape and shall be affixed to the building in the same manner, at the same height above ground level, and with the same lighting (see Figure 5).


Freestanding signs and freestanding directory signs may not obstruct driver visibility and, to the extent possible, shall be located to the left of the entrance to parking for the building or structure and incorporated in any hedge or landscaping feature (see Figure 6a and 6b).










Signs shall minimize vehicle operator and pedestrian confusion to the extent possible (see Figure 7).



§ 185-93 	Illumination and Lighting
Signs may not use internal, back, or up-lighting, or exposed neon tubes and neon signs on the outside of a building or visible through a window, provided however that exit and safety signs required by building, fire, or OSHA codes not to exceed 10 inches high by 12 inches wide, or such other dimensions specifically required by those codes, are allowed.

Wall and projecting signs may only be illuminated from the top.

Free standing signs may be illuminated from the top or internally .

Sign brightness or luminous intensity may not exceed 100 Nits (Candelas per square meter) for all sign types, provided however that changeable message signs may be 2,000 Nits during the day. Maximum signage lighting levels (in lumens, for each sign):

 Lights must be shielded to contain all light directed onto the sign and not cause off-site glare. All lighted signs and changeable message signs must be equipped with a photo-control sensor and be turned off within one hour of the close of the business(es) or 11:00 PM local time, whichever is later, where the sign is located. Colored lighting, open flame, or bare bulbs shall not be used.

Signs shall only be illuminated with a stationary white or off-white steady light and shall not have blinking, flashing, or fluttering lights, or other illuminating devices that have a changing light intensity, brightness, color, or light elements that can be mistaken for traffic-control devices, except for Changeable Message Signs, below.

Changeable Message Signs (CMS), except Electronic Paper Signage (EPS) in a wall, projecting, or freestanding sign are only allowed for art, performance, and venues with over 50 seats, wall directory signs, and government spaces with changing schedules. EPS is allowed for any signage type. CMS must have:
 A minimum 20 second of (dwell) time between display changes, except Electronic Paper Signage (EPS) which are not required to have a minimum dwell time.
Photocells that dim in dark conditions with sign lights no greater than 0.3 foot-candle above ambient light conditions. 
Display boards that do not emit sound.


§ 185-94	Prohibited Signs
Any sign not specifically permitted or exempted are prohibited. In addition:
Any sign erected at or near the intersection of any two streets, or of any street and driveway, in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear vision; or erected at any location where, by reason of position, shape, color, illumination or wording, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of or be confused with any authorized traffic control sign, signal or device; or otherwise constitute a hazard to pedestrian or vehicular traffic because of intensity or direction of illumination.

The use of flashing or moving light or fluorescent print on any sign. This includes lights designed to attract attention by a change in light intensity or repeated motion, and includes, without limitation, time-temperature indicators.

All mechanical moving or rotating signs, including those with streamers, pennants, banners, spinners, ribbons and strings of light bulbs, and other similar signs.

Any sign not repaired or properly maintained within 60 days after the notice to that effect has been given by the Building Official; such sign shall be removed forthwith by the owner.

Mobile or portable signs mounted on a trailer or other portable base.

Signs in or on abandoned or vacated premises for more than 90 days from the date the vacancy commenced.

Signs which are pasted on or attached to utility poles, trees, fences or structures such as overpasses and bridges.

Signs posted or attached to other signs unless such subsidiary portions are an integral part of the total sign design.

Inflatable devices, such as, but not limited to, inflatable animals, characters, or large balloons.

Licensed vehicles used on a daily basis as part of a business operation for the transport of goods or the delivery of services may display signs which relate to that business. Parked vehicles are prohibited from being used as signs (i.e., placement of the vehicles so as to draw attention to the business) or from being used to support signs.

§ 185-95	Exempt, Temporary, and Window Signs
Exempt, temporary, and window signs allowed in the Table of Allowable Signs (§ 185-90), but are subject to enforcement and removal if they do not meet the requirements of that Table and all other zoning and code requirements. 

Temporary signs must be removed at the end of any time limits herein provided and therefore the rights to these signs do not become vested or grandfathered if the zoning changes.















§185-96	A-Frame Signs
A-Frame signs may be placed on sidewalks in the public right-of-way and on sidewalks on private property in front of commercial establishments, as allowed in the Table of Allowable Signs (§ 185-90), subject to the issuance of a temporary permit from the Building Official provided any A-Frame shall:

Include a locking arm connecting the two sign faces for stabilization and have a minimum of 60 pounds of weight (e.g., sandbags) at the base of the sign for stability during a strong wind.

Be outdoors in a space visible to the public only during business hours.

Only be on public sidewalks or public right-of-way for buildings that immediately abut the public sidewalk.

Be made of wood, metal, or plastic with metal, chalkboard, or slate side panels.

Eligible to get a permit for a maximum of twelve months. The approval certificate shall be affixed to the inside of the A-Frame. There is no automatic renewal, vesting, or right to a new permit if Zoning or conditions change.

Be temporarily removed by the owner whenever the Town requests for special events.

Provide the Building Official with an insurance certificate for $1,000,000 in liability insurance which names the Town of Barrington as additional insured for any sign on a public right of way




§ 185-97	Wall, Wall Directory, and Wall Residential Signs
Wall, wall directory, and wall residential signs are allowed as listed in 
the Table of Allowable Signs (§ 185-90), the dimensional regulations (§ 185-91), all other zoning and code requirements, and, when applicable, compliance with Site Design Standards (§ 185-92) and Special Use Permit standards	(§185-76). 




§ 185-98	Projecting and Blade Signs and Banners
Projecting and banner signs are allowed as listed in the Table of Allowable Signs (§ 185-90), the dimensional regulations (§ 185-91), all other zoning and code requirements, and, when applicable, compliance with Site Design Standards (§ 185-92) and Special Use Permit standards (§185-76).










§ 185-99	Awning and Canopy Signs
Awning and canopy signs are allowed as listed in the Table of Allowable Signs (§ 185-90), the dimensional regulations (§ 185-91), all other zoning and code requirements, and, when applicable, compliance with Site Design Standards (§ 185-92) and Special Use Permit standards (§185-76).









§ 185-100	Freestanding and Common Signs
Freestanding and common signs are allowed as listed in the Table of Allowable Signs (§ 185-90), the dimensional regulations (§ 185-91), all other zoning and code requirements, and, when applicable, compliance with Site Design Standards (§ 185-92) and Special Use Permit standards (§185-76).

For Common signs, the property owner(s) shall be responsible for allocating permitted signs and display surface areas among the individual uses or establishments.
The common signage plan shall display harmony and consistency with regard to placement of signs, materials, and type of lighting.
It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to inform its tenants of this requirement and to furnish each tenant with a copy of the approved signage plan for their center.
Signage proposed for individual commercial units on sites subject to the common signage plan requirements that lack an approved common signage plan, shall be reviewed by the Technical Review Committee, with approval subject to a positive finding that the proposed signage is consistent in terms of placement, materials and type of illumination with existing business signs at the site.












§ 185-101	Preexisting, Non-Conforming, Abandoned, Unsafe, and Improper Signs
No sign, whether previously constructed by virtue of a sign permit or considered a legal preexisting nonconforming use, shall be altered in any manner, relocated on the same building or moved to another site, or include changes in graphics, lettering, color, brackets or posts without obtaining a sign permit (§ 185-103). Signs shown as “allowed with no permit required” in the Table of Allowable Signs (§ 185-90) and directory sign alterations in complying with a directory sign approval may be made without application.

Any sign in existence on the effective date of this chapter which was constructed in accordance with the applicable regulations in effect on the date of its construction, but which by reason of its size, height, location, design, construction, or other factors is not in conformance with the provisions of this article, shall be considered to be a lawful preexisting nonconforming sign. 

Each preexisting nonconforming sign and sign structure shall be allowed to be displayed for a period of time (amortization period) that provides a reasonable opportunity for the owner to benefit from the investment made in the sign. This period shall be seven years from the effective date of this chapter. After this time has expired, nonconforming signs and sign structures shall be removed or otherwise brought into conformance with the provisions of this article. Any nonconforming signs not removed or brought into compliance within this period shall be deemed a public nuisance, and may be removed or altered to comply by the Building Official at the expense of the owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the premises upon which such sign may be erected.

If any preexisting nonconforming sign is abandoned, demolished or replaced in any manner by the voluntary action of the owner or other authorized parties or governmental agency within this seven-year period, such sign shall not be rebuilt or replaced except in a manner conforming to all applicable provisions of this article, provided however that the Technical Review Committee may approve the replacement of a preexisting nonconforming sign with a sign that is closer to meeting zoning requirements and is a clear improvement. Such a change resets the seven-year amortization period.

A preexisting nonconforming sign which is destroyed or damaged by any casualty within this seven-year period may be restored within six months after such destruction or damage only after the owner has demonstrated to the Technical Review Committee’s satisfaction that the damage does not exceed 50% of the appraised value of the sign. If such sign is destroyed or damaged to an extent exceeding 50%, it shall be removed and not be rebuilt or replaced except in a manner conforming to all applicable provisions of this article.

The Barrington Building Official is authorized to request the removal of any sign in violation of the provisions of this chapter or related special use permits or variances and has the authority to enforce such request for removal.

If the Building Official determines that a sign is unsafe or insecure, is a menace to the public or has been abandoned, they shall give written notice to the owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the premises upon which such sign may be erected. A sign shall be considered to be abandoned if the property on which it sits has been vacant with no active use for a period of 90 days or more. If such owner, agent or person fails to remove said sign so as to comply with the standards herein set forth within 10 days after such notice, or with no notice if the sign is an immediate peril to persons or property, such sign and other advertising structure may be removed or altered to comply by the Building Official at the expense of the owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the premises upon which such sign may be erected.


§185-102	Sign Permit Applications
Any person desiring and intending to erect, relocate or alter any sign within the Town of Barrington, except exempt, temporary event, and window signs in accordance with §185-90, and -95, shall first pay the required fee and apply for and obtain a sign permit from the Building Official on Barrington Sign Application with:
The name, address, telephone number and signature of the applicant, the building owner, any lessee, and the person performing the work.

The location of the premises where the sign(s) is proposed to be erected or attached and its position indicating its relation to its premises and adjoining premises.

Sign details which include the following:
A scaled drawing of each face of the proposed sign with all sign specifications, including size, material, color, lettering type and size, logo and type of mounting and building placement; a description of the materials to be used for the sign and frame; and wall anchorage details for all wall-mounted signs. (Note: Anchorage must be interior to the sign and camouflaged.)
An elevation drawn to scale of the entire wall of the building to which the sign is to be fixed correctly locating the sign, for all wall-mounted signs.
An eight-inch-by-ten-inch color photograph (or color copy) of the existing building and/ or site where the sign is to be located.
For common sign applications shall show an overall plan of all business, directory and directional signs located or proposed thereon including: 
Site plan of the entire zoning lot.
Dimensional information and spreadsheet for signage for all tenant spaces.
Digital files with all images, plans and documents, including placement on building elevation.
Number, location and size of signs: allocation of sign area (square footage) for each tenant based on standards within this article; maximum and minimum sizes of signs.
Lighting: type, hardware/fixtures.
Ground signs: site plan or aerial showing location, sight distance triangles, property boundaries and setbacks, sidewalks, buildings, parking areas and streets.
The electrical permit if one is required.


§ 185-103	Review of Sign Permit Applications
Upon receiving a completed sign application, the Building Official or their designee shall 
The Building Official shall approve fully completed signage applications within 10 business days of their receipt for signs allowed by-right (A) in the Table of Allowable Signs (§ 185-90) and for signs consistent with an approved common signage plan in accordance with Freestanding and Common Signs (§ 185-100) and related TRC approvals (§ 185-76) that are otherwise fully in conformance with zoning and, if applicable, building code.
The denial of a sign permit application may be appealed to the Zoning Board in accordance with § 185-58. The Building Official shall inform applicants in writing with their denial that sign variance requests, for use or dimensional variances, are unlikely to meet the hardship test.
Within 10 days of the receipt of a fully completed sign application, the Building Official shall refer applications requiring a Zoning Board Special Use Permit or Technical Review Committee approval, in accordance with the Table of Allowable Signs (§ 185-90), to the applicable board. 
The Technical Review Committee shall review any sign permit application referred to them within a reasonable time under Standards relating to signage requirements (§ 185-76) and signage article (§ 185-8 to -105). If no additional zoning relief is required from the Zoning Board, the TRC shall either approve the application, with or without conditions, or deny the application. TRC’s denial of a sign permit application may be appealed to the Zoning Board (§ 185-58). IF approved by the TRC, the Building Official shall issue the sign permit with any TRC conditions.
The TRC shall review any sign application the Building Official refers to the Zoning Board of Review and make advisory recommendations. Zoning Board relief, when required, is required before the Building Official issues a sign permit.
A sign permit shall expire 12 months from the date of issue unless the applicant exercises the permission granted, commences substantial construction and diligently completes the same. TRC or the Zoning Board, as applicable, may, upon written request and for good cause shown, grant one additional six-month extension.

§ 185-104	Enforcement and Administration.
All fee, administrative, and enforcement sections of Barrington’s zoning apply to signage, including but not limited to Compliance Required (§185-4) and Administration and Enforcement (§185-38 to §185-46).

§ 185-105	[reserved for future use]


§ 185-157. Sign standards.
In reviewing an application submitted under § 185-151 that also involves the issuance of a sign permit as part of a commercial, industrial or mixed use development, the permitting authority shall apply the sign standards and regulations contained within Article XVII of this chapter.

