# PORJECTION OF POPULATION AND SCHOOL-AGE CHILDREN and RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY TAX REVENUE

## SHINEHARMONY HOLDINGS, INC.: PROPOSED BELTON COURT RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT

TOWN OF BARRINGTON, RI

PREPARED BY: JDL ENTERPRISES - JOSEPH D. LOMBARDO, AICP

DRAFT - AUGUST 2023

## EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

### Population and School Aged Children Estimate:

Upon full buildout, the proposed 347 unit Belton Court development (the "Development") is anticipated to have a total population of 736 residents, including 77 school aged children (grades 1-12). As more fully described in the report below, the conclusions are corroborated by a wide array of national, regional and local statistics.

It is important to note that while difficult to quantify, the actual number of school aged children residing in the community and impacting the Barrington public school system may end up being lower than the estimate above due to the following factors:

- The small average lot and home size of the single-family units in the Development (which accounts for over 80% of the number of estimated school aged children above) is not as conducive to larger families as traditional single-family homes that might be represented in the market data
- The estimate above does not consider any that some of the school aged children may attend private school or chose an alternative form of education

## Estimated Residential Property Taxes:

Upon full buildout and based upon the projected sellout values of the residential units provided by the Shineharmony Holdings, Inc. (the "Client"), the town of Barrington ("Barrington" or the "Town") will realize total estimated residential property tax revenues of \$3,661,606 from residential property taxes (in 2023 \$'s). It should be noted that the sellout prices for the units provided by the client assume that 75% of the units will be sold at market rates, while the remaining 25% will be sold at prices consistent with Low to Moderate Income limits.

After subtracting the allocated municipal and school costs based upon Barrington's current budgets for such costs to the total population and school aged children estimates above, the Development is expected to generate a net annual revenue surplus of \$2,126,990.

### Other Key Considerations:

The Development is anticipated to add 86 Low & Moderate Income housing units to the inventory in Barrington. Currently, the Town is well below the 10% State mandate at 3.38%, and this Development will increase the total of LMI units to 4.8%, closer the 10% threshold.

## POPULATION AND SCHOOL AGED CHILDREN

The anticipated population projection for the Development is summarized below:

| Unit Type                            | Total Number of Units (a) |      |      |      |       |
|--------------------------------------|---------------------------|------|------|------|-------|
|                                      | 1 Br                      | 2 Br | 3 Br | 4 Br | Total |
| Traditional Multifamily/condos       | 60                        | 80   | 20   | 0    | 160   |
| Six packs                            | 10                        | 47   | 10   | 0    | 67    |
| Total multifamily                    | 70                        | 127  | 30   | 0    | 227   |
| Townhouses                           | 0                         | 7    | 36   | 8    | 51    |
| Cottages (small single family homes) | 0                         | 35   | 24   | 0    | 59    |
| Traditional Single Family Homes      | 0                         | 0    | 4    | 6    | 10    |
| Total single-family                  | 0                         | 42   | 64   | 14   | 120   |
| Total/Average                        | 70                        | 169  | 94   | 14   | 347   |
| Projected residents per unit (b)     | 1.50                      | 2.07 | 2.60 | 2.60 | 2.12  |
| Projected Population                 | 105                       | 350  | 244  | 36   | 736   |

- (a) Per unit type and mix provided by Client
- (b) The per capita population estimates of 1.50 for 1-bedroom units, 2.07 for the 2-bedroom units and 2.60 for 3 & 4-bedroom units reflect national, regional and local residential housing data.

In order to estimate the number of school age children that may be generated by the multifamily units in the Development, normally it can be expected to mirror the national, regional and more closely, local state averages of 0.05-07 students per household, or 5-7 students per 100 households. To validate the number of school age children that may result from a development such as proposed, numerous studies of multifamily housing projects over the past 10-15 years have shown this to be an average rate of school-age children. Similar ratios have been found to exist in numerous other apartment and condominium developments around the state and nearby Connecticut. See Addendum 1 and 2.

With regard to single family homes, market data suggests that the number of school children per household ranges between 50-60 students per 100 households. See Addendum 3 for additional information.

Utilizing 0.07 students per household (high end of range based on research of multifamily statistics) for the 127 two-bedroom multifamily units and 42 two-bedroom single family homes, **twelve (12) students** would be expected from the Development. No rate was applied to the 1-bedroom multifamily units as all research pointed to the fact that 1-bedroom units typically do not include school aged children.

For the 78 three (3) and four (4) bedroom single family homes and 30 three (3) bedroom multifamily units, a rate of 0.60 students per household was applied (consistent with the higher end of the range based on all single family statistics researched), resulting in sixty-five (65) students.

In summary, a total of 77 school age children included in a grand total of 736 people are projected to become residents of the Development upon full buildout. It should be noted that the projected school-age children will be spread between the Town's' elementary, middle and high school, during any particular school year. Also, while difficult to quantify, based on the note below, it is very possible, if not likely that the actual number of school aged children that will ultimately reside in the Development and enroll in the Barrington public school system will the lower than the amount projected.

NOTE: Research from the National Multi Housing Council (NMHC) and National Association of Home Builders (NAHB), indicates two important facts:

Unit sizes are another factor. Properties with larger units on average attract more families and thus more school age children. Belton Court unit sizes are much smaller than typical single family homes in Barrington. Thus, the actual number of larger families that may be seeking 3 bedroom single family homes may not choose to become residents at Belton Court.

There is also a strong and direct correlation between household income and the number of school age children generated by an apartment community. The higher the household income the fewer students generated per household. Based on the average projected sales prices for the singlefamily homes at Belton Court ranging from almost \$700,000-nearly \$1,000,000, this will affect the number of school-age children that may become residents at Belton Court. In addition, these higher income families may also choose to send their children to private schools versus the Town of Barrington's public schools, even though the Town's schools have an excellent reputation.

## RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY TAX REVENUE ESTIMATES

The following table presents the projected total municipal revenue for the Development upon full buildout:

## TOTAL PROJECT REVENUE PROJECTIONS - BELTON COURT – BASE YEAR OF 2023 TOWN OF BARRINGTON

|                        | AVERAGE<br>ASSESSED<br>VALUE+ | TAX RATE *         | UNITS | TOTAL<br>REVENUE<br>PER UNIT<br>TYPE | TOTAL<br>REVENUE |
|------------------------|-------------------------------|--------------------|-------|--------------------------------------|------------------|
|                        |                               |                    |       |                                      |                  |
| 1 BDR                  | \$344,000                     | \$19.65/<br>\$1000 | 70    | \$6,760                              | \$473,200        |
| 2 BDR                  | \$498,728                     | \$19.65/<br>\$1000 | 169   | \$9,786                              | \$1,653,834      |
| 3 BDR                  | \$685,617                     | \$19.65/<br>\$1000 | 94    | \$13,460                             | \$1,265,240      |
| 4 BDR                  | \$979,286                     | \$19.65/<br>\$1000 | 14    | \$19,238                             | \$269,332        |
|                        |                               |                    |       |                                      |                  |
| TOTAL                  |                               |                    | 347   |                                      | \$3,661,606      |
| PROJECT GRAND<br>TOTAL |                               |                    |       |                                      | \$3,661,606      |
|                        |                               |                    |       |                                      |                  |

<sup>+</sup> Per Shineharmony Holdings, Inc. Average of both Affordable LMI Units & Market Rate Units

Based on the above, the total gross residential property tax revenue generated by the Development upon buildout of the Development is estimated to be: \$3,661,606.

Furthermore, based on the estimated \$566 per capita municipal budget and \$14,520 school expense per school aged child, the total expenses associated with the aforementioned revenue is estimated to be \$1,534,616, resulting in a net annual surplus of \$2,126,990.

<sup>\*</sup> Per Town of Barrington Tax Assessor's Office 2023 –

#### ADDENDUM 1 – STUDIES RE, MULTIFAMILY HOUSING & SCHOOL AGE CHILDREN

In order to determine and substantiate the number of school age children that may result from a residential development of apartments, normally it can be expected to mirror the national, regional and more closely, local state averages. Empirical data collected over the past 10 years primarily in Rhode Island and to a lesser degree from Connecticut, a ratio of 0.05 students per household, or 5 students per 100 households has been confirmed numerous times. To estimate the number of school age children that may result from any new development projects exceeding 50 units and containing primarily one and two-bedroom units, it is important to conduct the following research and analysis.

Usually this involves an inquiry to the local School Department or bus company to quantify the number of students residing in various sample residential developments. This will produce a ratio of school age children per 100 units to be used as a multiplier. This ratio has been analyzed for numerous Apartment developments throughout Rhode Island and Connecticut over the past 10 years.

Based on a recent study in October of 2011 by Community Opportunities Group, Inc. for the Town of Maynard, MA, the following findings and conclusions substantiated the projection of a ratio of 0.05 students per household, or 5 students per 100 households:

- Statistics derived from the Census Bureau's new American Community Survey (ACS) indicates virtually no school-age children reside in one-bedroom units, and very few in two-bedroom multi-family units
- Households in new multifamily housing are quite different from their counterparts in older multifamily developments. The differences range from household size and composition to household income and employment characteristics. A key factor separating new from old developments is that newer projects are frequently designed to cater to childless households.
- The number of school-age children in new projects is driven primarily by the size of the dwelling units (number of bedrooms) and whether the units are subject to age restrictions. For non-age-restricted housing, one-bedroom units are still found to generally contain no children, especially older children while two-bedroom units attract a mixed population, including some families with school-age children.

In addition to unit sizes, new multi-family developments have a lesser tendency to attract families based on:

- Density. Higher density developments tend to have fewer children of any age than lower density developments. This seems to correlate with unit size because higher density developments are usually dominated by one- and two-bedroom units.
- Other choices in the housing market. Since new multifamily developments are often designed to discourage family occupancy, families seeking rental housing will choose other options if available in the same market area
- Housing costs. In a given market area, the higher the rent, the more likely it is that a renter household will not have school age children
- Older multi-family dwellings are more likely to house families with children because they are relatively small buildings with more greenspace and play areas, and the rents or sale prices tend to run below market. Families that can afford to own a home generally purchase one.

IN SUMMARY, statistics gathered in a broader manner for entire markets may not accurately reflect the anticipated number of school age children that will be residents of newly constructed, more dense projects. Townwide averages blend all multifamily residents and do not account for the large differences that determine the choices a family with children will make based on age, amenities and most importantly, number of bedrooms. There have been very few studies completed in the three-state region (MA, RI & CT) during the past 10-15 years to assist in assessing the impact of school age children for any specific project. However, given all the project specific detailed data collected by JDL ENTERPRISES and the chosen methodology, there is a higher degree of confidence in predicting school age children for a new development than relying solely on older general studies that do not reflect the actual project being reviewed by the community.

#### ADDENDUM 2 – ADDITIONAL MULTIFAMILY DATA RE. SCHOOL AGED CHILDREN IN RI, MA & CT

Research of current similar developments within RI, MA & CT, plus regional studies on the influence of housing production on public school enrollment is summarized below and shows that the generation of school children by these types of projects in recent years has generally been minimal.

A housing developer that has constructed residential housing in the three (3) state area, A.R. Building, has compiled data for a similar project and found that newer multifamily projects do not generate a high number of school children, mainly due to the smaller unit design and the lack of amenities such as playgrounds, activity rooms, etc. that would attract families with children. A.R. Building did a survey of some of their local developments and found the following school children counts:

- 60 Mansfield Semi-Urban 104 Unit Development of 1 and 2 bedrooms in New London, CT – 0 children
- Highland Hills Suburban 198 Unit development of 1, 2 and 3 bedrooms 19 children, (14) 6 or under
- Kettle Point Urban 135 unit development of 1 and 2 bedrooms 10 children, (6) 5 or under
- Dowling Village Suburban 88 unit development of 1,2 and 3 bedrooms 2 children

This data shows a total of 31 children (11 school age) over 525 units, or an average of 0.06 total children per unit.

In October of 2017, the Massachusetts Metropolitan Area Planning Council released a report titled "The Waning Influence of Housing Production on Public School Enrollment in Massachusetts" (can be provided if requested). The study analyzed 234 Massachusetts school districts and found no relationship between housing production and school enrollment growth. The executive summary states the following:

One of the most widespread worries about new housing development, especially in suburban communities, is that it will drive up school enrollment. Many local officials and residents assume that new housing, and especially new multifamily housing, will attract families - families with children who will inevitably increase enrollment in the local public schools - creating additional education costs outweighing any new revenue the housing generates.

These apprehensions are rooted in the demographic and development patterns of the late 20th century, when Baby Boomers were in their prime child-rearing years. Their residential choices caused housing stock, enrollment, and school expenditures to grow quickly in many suburbs. Many communities even considered limiting housing

development in hopes of curbing school budget increases and the need for more tax revenue.

Over the past 15 years, however, multiple studies have examined the enrollment and fiscal impacts of individual housing developments and found that concerns about those impacts are commonly overstated. To complement this work, MAPC examined housing permit and enrollment trends across 234 public school districts over the past 6 years, from 2010 to 2016, inclusive.

We find that the conventional wisdom that links housing production with inevitable enrollment growth no longer holds true. At the district level, we observe no meaningful correlation between housing production rates and enrollment growth over a six-year period. While it is true that schoolchildren occupying new housing units may cause a marginal change in enrollment, they are one small factor among many. In cities and towns with the most rapid housing production, enrollment barely budged; and most districts with the largest student increases saw very little housing unit change. The rate of housing unit growth is not a useful predictor of overall enrollment change, nor is rapid housing development a precondition to sudden enrollment increases. It appears that broad demographic trends, parental preferences, and housing availability now play a much larger role in enrollment growth and decline. Our findings raise important issues related to capital planning, education finance, and housing incentive programs.

#### ADDENDUM 3 – SINGLE FAMILY DATA RE. SCHOOL AGED CHILDREN IN RI, MA & CT

Regarding the 3-4-bedroom units typically found in single-family developments, in order to determine the number of school aged children that may be generated by a typical development on large suburban lots, a review of 3-4-bedroom single family homes, national statistics indicate that this type of housing may produce up to 0.60 school age children or 60 students per 100 households.

 According to a survey conducted with the assistance of the Chariho School District and the Laidlaw Bus Company of eleven subdivisions in both Richmond and Hopkinton representing 628 single family homes, the school age children averaged 0.53 or fiftythree (53) students per one hundred households. This average also incorporates housing age.

Average Number of Students Per Household in Richmond & Hopkinton, RI

|                                   | Public | Private | Charter | Total |
|-----------------------------------|--------|---------|---------|-------|
| Richmond (7 Subdivisions)         | 198    | 8       | 3       | 209   |
| Hopkinton (4 Subdivisions)        | 124    | 2       | 0       | 126   |
|                                   |        |         |         |       |
| Total Students                    | 322    | 10      | 3       | 335   |
| Subdivision Housing Units         |        |         |         | 628   |
| Average Students per Housing Unit |        |         |         | 0.53  |

Source: Chariho School District – October 2006

- Utilizing US Census data from 1970-2010, the average number of people per household has shrunk from 3.10 to 2.60 in that time period.
- In a June 2006 Rutgers University study for the State of Connecticut, the average number of school-age children in a three-bedroom single family home was 0.66.
- A Montgomery County- PA study in January 2012 which examined US Census data from 2010 determined the SAC for single family homes was 0.55.
- A January 2007 Vermont Housing Finance Agency study showed that on average in Vermont, the SAC was 0.72.

All of these sources have been reviewed and an average is taken at 0.60 ratio for SAC

(School-age children) or 60 SAC per 100 units for 3 and 4 bedroom single-family homes.

NOTE: Research from the National Multi Housing Council (NMHC) and National Association of Home Builders (NAHB), indicates two important facts:

Properties with larger units on average attract more families and thus more school-aged children. Belton Court unit sizes are much smaller than typical single-family homes in Barrington. Thus, the actual number of larger families that may be seeking 3-bedroom single family homes may not choose to become residents at Belton Court.

There is also a strong and direct correlation between household income and the number of school age children generated by a development. The higher the household income the fewer students generated per household. Based on the \$700,000+ average projected sales prices for the singlefamily homes at Belton Court, this could affect the number of school-age children that may become residents at Belton Court. In addition, these higher income families may also choose to send their children to private schools versus the Town of Barrington's public schools, even though the Town's schools have an excellent reputation.