## **BARRINGTON PLANNING BOARD**

## **Regular Business Meeting**

7:00 PM, Tuesday, June 3, 2025 Council Chamber – Barrington Town Hall 283 County Road, Barrington, RI

**Meeting materials can be found online at<https://www.barrington.ri.gov/182/Planning-Board>**

## **AGENDA**

- 1. Call to Order.
- 2. Roll Call & Determination of Quorum
- 3. Consent Agenda:
  - a. Approve Minutes:
    - i. May 6, 2025 Regular Meeting
- 4. Public Hearing:
  - a. Discuss and Act: Comprehensive Permit for 89 Maple Avenue, AP 23, Lot 58, Business District. Proposes converting the building from a mixed-use residential/commercial to a two-family residential dwelling. Additions to the building will be part of the conversion. The conversion will consist of a market rate unit on the first floor and an affordable unit on the second. The application seeks both dimensional and use waivers.
- 5. New Business:
  - a. Discuss and Act: At the Town Council's request, recommendation on lowering or eliminating the 20,000 SF threshold minimum lot size for Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU's) regarding the Council's pending amendments to Chapter 185 of the Town Code (Zoning Ordinance).
- 6. Old Business:
  - a. Discussion and Action: Comprehensive Plan 2024-2025 Updates (Standing Agenda Item): Subject to Availability:
    - i. Transportation
    - ii. Economic Development
    - iii. Outdoor Recreation
- 7. Other Business:
  - a. Reports Board Members, Council Liaison, Director of Planning
  - b. Future Agenda Items:
    - i. For July: Pseudo "Training" for PB Members (conducted by Amy Goins)
      - 1. Comprehensive Permit review techniques, "do's & don'ts'', and other advice for the quasi-judicial review process.
      - 2. Update on School Construction Projects PB FYI
- 8. Adjournment

ALL PLANNING BOARD MEETINGS ARE AUDIO-RECORDED. All town meetings are open to the public. The Town of Barrington will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal meeting participation. To request an accommodation to participate in a meeting, please submit your request by calling (401) 247-1900 Ext. 301 (Town Clerk's office) or write a letter to the Town Clerk, Town of Barrington, 283 County Road, Barrington, RI 02806. Deaf and Hard of Hearing callers can dial 711 "Relay" or through a relay service provider to request an accommodation at the Town Clerk's office. The Barrington Town Hall, Barrington Public Library, and Barrington Public Safety Building are accessible to people with disabilities. **Agenda posted on May 23, 2025,** at Barrington Town Hall and the Barrington Public Library and on Secretary of State Web Site.