As a starting point, statewide planning provides a handbook for the Land Use element, setting out requirements and suggestions. It is available here:

[https://planning.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur826/files/documents/comp\\_handbook/13\\_Land](https://planning.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur826/files/documents/comp_handbook/13_LandUse.pdf) [Use.pdf](https://planning.ri.gov/sites/g/files/xkgbur826/files/documents/comp_handbook/13_LandUse.pdf) It also provides links to relevant statewide reports and plans and summaries of state policies regarding land use. I've excerpted some of the key language below.

By and large, the issues highlighted in the 2015 plan remain pertinent today:

- 1. Housing, particularly affordable units and options accessible to seniors aging in the community
- 2. Planning for climate-related sea level change
- 3. Expanding the commercial tax base to alleviate burden on residential property
- 4. Preserving community character, particularly in the George Street agricultural area
- 5. Providing and preserving municipal facilities (schools, recreations, etc.)
- 6. Environmental protection

Decisions about future land use undergird virtually all the elements of the comprehensive plan, but several elements are most directly implicated. Tensions sometimes arise between goals in various elements of the plan. This is only natural and probably unavoidable, since progress in one area may require compromises or sacrifices in another.

In some instances, multiple imperatives need to be balanced. For example, recent discussion of the board have explored the desirability of mixed-use vertical development in the village center. This would potentially involve the renovation of existing, low-story commercial properties to add additional floors for mixed use/residential units.

This would help us meet Housing goals by adding new units to the market, particularly smaller, more affordable units which are in high demand and short supply. Since these units would be added primarily along the 114 corridor, it would align with statewide transitoriented development (TOD) strategies and the town goal of encouraging pubic transit. Further, the addition of residents to the commercial district could be a boon for local business.

Conversely, many parts of the commercial district are flood-prone, and storm events are projected to become for frequent due to climate change and sea level rise. Anecdotally, there are already drainage issues in the neighborhood (incidentally, another factor in favor a vertical development as opposed to horizontal.) The state has identified 114 as a vulnerable evacuation corridor in the event of a catastrophic weather event. We must consider whether it would be appropriate to adjust the FLUM and zoning ordinance to encourage denser development in the Village Center (in furtherance of Housing, Economic Development, and Transportation goals,) or whether public safety and planning for climate change may advise against such development.

Other choices may require similar exploration in the Land Use element. There have also been developments at the state level, particularly when it comes to incentivization of housing production, that should be considered, particularly where statewide priorities run up against local limitations.

The future use of the Zion campus was discussed in the 2015 plan. Since it seems likely we may see a proposal for this site in the near future, such discussion could probably be omitted from the current plan. Other topics touched on which may be revisited include:

- Zoning options for the undeveloped formerly industrial parcels off Bay Spring Ave.
- The former site of "The Place" (currently mentioned as an option for a new "Tot Lot" or other low-intensity recreational activity in the Outdoor Recreation element).
- Protecting agricultural uses and historical sites in the George Street section. I believe that this section currently lies within the state's Urban Services Boundary, despite limited public infrastructure. There has been quite a bit of development in this area over the Massachusetts border.
- Conservation zoning and/or zoning with an eye to climate change/sea level rise.

Guidance from statewide planning and excerpts of the draft Comprehensive Plan are highlighted below.

# *Housing*

# From the State guidebook:

The single most common use for land is for residences. The locations and densities of these residences will influence the population level of the community and its character….

A key point to remember is that a municipality's zoning ordinance must be brought into conformance with the Land Use section of the comprehensive plan and especially the FLUM [Future Land Use Map]. The Land Use section will set the course for future zoning amendments and the locations and densities of housing as displayed on the FLUM will determine what specific residential zoning districts will be allowed in the future.

The draft Housing element specifically overlaps with Land Use with respect to Policy HN-2.2:

Policy HN-2.2. Consider opportunities to increase development density through revision of land use regulations.

# Actions:

- 1. Explore increasing maximum height and maximum building lot coverage for housing production in Business Districts along County Road.
- 2. Consider allowing for the conversion of single-family dwellings to two-family dwellings by right, as appropriate, in certain districts.
- 3. Further evaluate the feasibility of the high priority potential opportunity sites (identified in this plan) for affordable housing development and identify potential for-profit and non-profit development partners.
- 4. Pursue rezoning Neighborhood Business districts to R-B Flex, as appropriate.
- 5. Conduct study of Residential Business Flex District to identify challenges and opportunities for improvement.
- 6. Study the feasibility of subdividing larger lots and creating an accompanying large lot subdivision incentives program for infill development.

# *Economic Development*

# From the State guidebook:

Economic development serves two key purposes for any community. It is both the source of individual wealth and prosperity and a source of revenue for municipal needs. Types of economic activity, ranging from agricultural to heavy industry, and the locations for these activities, go a long way in determining the character of the community. The Land Use section of a comprehensive plan will determine in broad terms whether the economic activity of that community will be characterized by growth centers, Main Streets, industrial parks, highway retail strips, farms, and all other forms of business. As noted above for housing, the FLUM will set the course for future zoning amendments, providing direction as to what types of business development will be allowed in the future.

# From the draft Economic Development element:

As discussed in **Housing & Neighborhoods** and **Land Use**, the Village Center remains a significant target for residential, as well as commercial, transit-oriented development (TOD).2 Simultaneous residential and commercial growth could be mutually reinforcing, as more residents grow the consumer base for local businesses and expanding commercial offerings attract new residents—thus creating a village in fact as well as name. With limited vacant land to allow horizontal commercial development, however, any significant new development will likely need to focus on infill, redevelopment, or vertical development. This approach will maximize the use of available space while revitalizing underutilized areas.3

To promote high-quality infill development, it will be essential to examine the current regulations to identify and minimize barriers to such development. The Zoning Ordinance and Village Guidelines (drafted in the mid-1990s to support the objectives of the Zoning Ordinance's design review standards) have helped to promote more pedestrian-friendly projects. The Zoning Ordinance, however, is most effective as a tool to discourage development the Town does not want—such as buildings with large parking lots in front. Standards could more explicitly encourage quality design in keeping with the Town's vision for a "village center." For example, illustrated design guidelines are a common tool used to clearly state the Town's objectives for building and site design, such as building scale and orientation to the street, signage and awnings, site circulation, landscaping, and public amenities (benches, street lights, bike racks). Other amendments to the zoning ordinance should also be considered, including adjustment of dimensional requirements in the Business and Neighborhood Business districts and/or a reduction in off-street parking requirements.

This discussion is captured in several goals, policies, and actions in the Economic Development element:

> Goal ED-3: Expand the non-residential tax base while preserving community character, with an emphasis on infill development and building re-use over expansion of commercial zoning.

> Policy ED-3.1: Encourage appropriate neighborhoodscale uses.

# **Actions**

Examine development standards for Business and Neighborhood Business districts in terms of limiting impacts (such as noise, lighting, stormwater runoff) of development on adjacent residential zones. [See also Housing & Neighborhoods Goal HN-2, Actions C and D]

- A. Evaluate adding bed and breakfast inns as a permitted or special use in residential zones, with standards to include location, parking and related accessory uses.
- B. Review the Short Term Residential Rental Ordinance and recommend....[if deemed necessary to address recent issues or otherwise regulate short-term rentals in town]

…

Goal ED-4. Strengthen the Town's commercial base with a focus on promoting existing local businesses and economic sustainability.

…

2. Identify restrictions in the use table and other regulations in Zoning Ordinance that act as barriers to home-based businesses and necessary support services; revise and/or eliminate regulations that are overly restrictive, while protecting neighborhoods from adverse impacts.

….

3. Conduct study of options, such as zoning ordinance amendments, to permit uses that encourage the provision of services and amenities that will support creative- and knowledge-based business and consulting, including the expansion of live-work opportunities.

…

Goal ED-5: Promote desired commercial activities in mixed-use areas.

Policy ED-5.1: Support economic development objectives in strategic areas, including the Neighborhood Business zone near County Road and on Bay Spring Avenue. Community input will be needed to determine the type of development desired for these areas, if different than existing zoning.

# **Actions**

1. Evaluate zoning strategies to promote a more cohesive retail environment in the Village Center. This could include creation of a new zoning district, modifying the Neighborhood Business or Business zone.

…

Goal ED-6. Preserve Barrington's community heritage and promote cohesive architectural identity, particularly in the central business district/town center.

Policy ED-6.1: Promote community design that contributes to a sense of place.

# **Actions**

- 1. Adopt a design standard for signage, buildings, and storefronts that positively contribute to Barrington's character to be enforced by the design review committee.
- 2. Adopt revisions to Land Development & Subdivision Regulations to add design guidelines to the review process.

*Natural Hazards and Climate Change*

From the state guidebook:

One of the primary reasons for including this topic in a local comprehensive plan is to provide an opportunity for the community to make decisions about future land uses, infrastructure and the provision of services and facilities in light of the projected impacts of natural hazards and climate change. Communities should recognize and discuss the implications of allocating additional density and/or development, or intending that development continue in vulnerable areas.

# From the draft Natural Hazards element:

Goal: Reduce density in flood-prone areas, particularly those that will face sea level rise

# Actions*:*

- 1. Prioritize new development in areas with low flood risk and exposure to sea level rise.
- 2. Coordinate with neighboring municipalities to begin developing strategies for managed retreat such as transfer of development rights, leaseback programs, or community climate land trust
- 3. Provide Planning Board the flexibility to reduce lot sizes to concentrate development to higher ground within a proposed development or subdivision site and out of the floodplain or in areas that are projected to be in the floodplain within the next 20 to 25 years.

# *Outdoor Recreation*

From the draft Outdoor Recreation element:

**Goal OR-1:** Barrington will meet the community's evolving recreational needs, both passive and active, by providing highquality, multi-use outdoor recreation facilities to benefit residents of all ages.

…

F. Review and revise Zoning Ordinance and Land Development and Subdivision Regulations, where appropriate, to require inclusion of recreational and open space facilities as a part of major land developments.

*Natural, Historic, and Cultural Resources:*

From the Historic and Cultural Resources element:

An open question is whether the R40-CD zone offers sufficient protection of the agricultural land use and rural character of the George Street area, as the zone retains the current Residence 40 density. There are additional measures—such as larger minimum lot size requirements or the establishment of an agricultural zoning district—that could further protect an area with significant agricultural resources, sensitive habitat, and a historic, rural landscape reflective of Barrington's early settlement.

…

Goal NR-5. Barrington will preserve the character of the town's rural areas.

Policy NR-5.1: Adopt measures and pursue policies to protect rural areas, with an emphasis on preserving rural character and agricultural values.

# **Actions**

1. Continue to ensure the George Street / Nockum Hill Area remains protected for its archaeological and historical significance, likely of national import. Ensure protections and preservations through zoning and other regulations to eliminate possibility of development on the areas of significance.