RE: Request for zoning addition to Commercial for 141 County Road, Comprehensive Plan Update

I am asking that the zone designation of 141 County Road be changed from it's existing "pre-existing nonconforming residential" designation to a Commercial designation. This will bring it into conformity with reality and the opinions of the Town Manager (former Planner) Phillip Hervey, current Planner Herb Durfee, noted appraiser Bill. Coyle and attorney Bruce H. Cox. All hold the unanimous opinion it should be included as Commercial.

141 County road is currently zoned pre existing non-conforming residential and has existed as a commercial dental office since 1954. Prior to 1954 it had several small businesses in it. It has always been a commercial site with the residential façade. There has not been a clean and simple opportunity to change it properly until now which is why I am asking for update the designation to commercial zone status at this time. We are asking to be updated and included as Commercial zoned for the 2025 comprehensive plan update.

Past recent history of the property includes RIDOT capturing 20 feet of commercial frontage in the mid 1990's for rte. 114 expansion, citing Commercial zone. After 2005, a commercial curb cut increasing entrance size was done by the RIDOT for driveway safety reasons for the parking lot. National Grid in their relocating of a supporting telephone pole and finally the inspection and installation of EV car chargers also viewed it as commercial zone. RIDOT, the RI Office of energy resources and the State of Rhode Island recognize 141 County road as a commercial public lot and approved its use as such. 141 County road has had a symbiotic relationship with the church and 147 County road next door, which also operate as commercial entities. We have had informal sharing of the parking lot behind 141 County Road to avoid road congestion.

Tangible hardships which exist in maintaining a preexisting non conforming status include insurance and finance costs to maintain the property as some companies cite the non conforming use status and ask us to be a commercial zone 141 County road properly.

I am asking 141 County Road parcel to be updated and included as Commercial zoned for the 2025 comprehensive plan update.

Matthew Asaro,

141County Road, Barrington RI 02806