## TOWN OF BARRINGTON PLANNING BOARD DECISION

Date of Meeting:

March 1, 2016

This is to certify that at the Barrington Planning Board meeting held on the above date, the Board considered the following application:

Applicant:

Shineharmony Holdings, Inc., 33 Middle Highway, Barrington, RJ 02806

Owner of Property:

Same as Applicant

Subject Premises:

33 Middle Highway (former Zion Bible Institute campus)

Assessor's Plat: 14 Zoning District: Lots: 2, 4, 13, 341, 342, 343 Recreation and Education

Requested Action:

Approval of Master Plan for Continuing Care Retirement Community at Former Zion Bible Institute. Site is zoned Recreation and Education; designated as "Senior Residential Village" on the Future Land Use Map. Development of a 214-unit multifamily building with assisted living, memory care and independent living units, two 12-unit buildings with independent living units, and 35 cottages for people 55 years of age and over. Proposal includes the renovation of Belton Court to provide 18 independent living units (18 apartments and 3 guest rooms), with common rooms. An existing multifamily apartment building near Middle Highway would be renovated. Development includes demolition of campus buildings, new private roadways and parking areas, landscaped areas, low-impact stormwater management, new walkways and other site features. Some work is proposed within 100 feet of wetland edge. Portion of units to qualify as affordable.

The application was re-heard on the above date to correct the mailing of notice to property owners within 200 feet of the project site.

Planning Board Members Voting on Subject Application: Jennifer Azevedo, Paul Dulchinos, Anne Galbraith, Timothy Lang, Jean Robertson, Lawrence Trim (Chair)

Motion: A. Galbraith made the following motion:

"The Barrington Planning Board hereby grants Master Plan approval with conditions, including approval of relief by the Zoning Board and adoption of a new zone for the property, for the proposed "Continuing Care Retirement Community," for property located on Middle Highway in the Town of Barrington, Rhode Island, Assessor's Plat 14, Lots 2, 4, 13, 341, 342 and 343, Recreation and Education and Residence 25 Zoning Districts. Site Plans by: InSite Engineering, 1539 Fall River Avenue, Seekonk, MA, 02771; landscape plans by Birchwood Design Group, 150 Chestnut Street, Providence, RI 02903; architectural plans by EGA Architects, One Vernon Street, Newburyport, MA 01950, and Durkee Brown Viveiros Werenfels Architects, 111 Chestnut Street, Providence, RI 02903. Plans dated September 11 and September 22, 2015.

This decision is based upon the following findings of fact and conditions of approval:

## FINDINGS OF FACT

- The proposed land development project, subject to compliance with the conditions of approval of this
  decision, is consistent with the Comprehensive Community Plan, including but not limited to the
  following components:
  - a. The Future Land Use Map, which identifies the site as "Senior Residential Village," and Appendix II: Developer Guidance for Senior Residential Village and Village Sites;
  - b. Housing goals (expansion of the supply of senior housing and affordable housing); and

- c. Circulation goals (enhancement of pedestrian connectivity) and Economic Development goals (expansion of the non-residential tax base)
- The proposed development is in compliance with the standards and provisions of the Barrington Zoning Ordinance, upon compliance with the condition of Town Council approval of Zoning Ordinance and Zoning Map amendments establishing a new "Senior Residential Village" zoning district for the property, and issuance of any relief required by the Zoning Board for site disturbance within the Town's wetland buffer.
- 3. Subject to more detailed engineering plans and analysis, there will be no significant negative environmental impacts from the proposed development as shown on the Master Plan, with all required conditions for approval, as the project includes the addition of measures for handling storm water, including rain gardens, cisterns and other measures.
- 4. The development has adequate and permanent physical access to public streets, Middle Highway.
- 5. The site layout and landscaping are compatible with the building and site characteristics of surrounding development, as it disperses parking throughout the site and in areas less visible from Middle Highway and abutting properties, provides street trees and landscaped buffers on the edges.
- 6. The development includes provisions for public water, wastewater treatment and storm-water management. The applicant will be required at the preliminary plan stage to demonstrate that the proposed means of water supply, sewage disposal and drainage are adequate.
- 7. The development provides for the safety and convenience of vehicular and pedestrian movement within the site by providing internal pedestrian circulation throughout the site, and a new/upgraded sidewalk along Middle Highway will be required.
- 8. The development, which includes renovation of Belton Court, a historic former residence on the National Register of Historic Places, is consistent with the historic building and site standards of the Zoning Ordinance (Sec. 185-160). By preserving Belton Court and preserving the front lawn and street trees on Middle Highway, the proposal retains the original characteristics, and setting of the historic structure. The location of proposed new buildings in the interior of the site and the design, with pitched roofs, and clapboard/shingle-style siding, the setback pattern and style, scale and materials of the proposed new construction are compatible with that of Belton Court.
- 9. The Applicant has submitted a Fee In Lieu Election request, conditional upon approval by the Town Council of a Fee In Lieu Ordinance.

## CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL

- 1. The site (Lots 2, 4, 13, 341, 342 and 343 on Assessor's Plat 14) shall be rezoned by the Town Council from Recreation and Education and Residence-25 to Senior Residential Village.
- The applicant shall secure approvals from the Zoning Board of Review for any relief required for site disturbance within the local wetland setback. No structures or pavement shall be located within the local wetland setback.
- 3. The maximum number of housing units, guest suites and memory care units within the development shall be:
  - a. Cottage development: 35 cottage dwelling units (including both detached and attached)
  - b. Continuing Care Retirement Community (CCRC):
    - i. Belton Court: 18 independent living units, 3 guest suites
    - ii. Main building (new construction): 140 independent living units, 50 assisted living units, 24 memory care units

- 4. Subject to Planning Board approval at the preliminary plan stage, the applicant may shift units from one CCRC building to another CCRC building, or from one unit type to another, as long as the overall unit maximum within the CCRC is not exceeded. The applicant shall submit fees for peer review of the master plan prior to the preliminary plan submission as follows:
  - a. The cottage housing plans, \$2,500, including site layout and precedents provided by the applicant. Issues to be evaluated include but are not limited to: design/location of driveways and garages, interface of the front entries with street, common green spaces, floorplans and street layout.
  - b. Parking supply and site design, \$3,500. The review will include recommendations for creative design and management techniques to avoid over-parking. The applicant shall provide data required for the review, including parking utilization comparisons of similar developments based on available data as well as assumptions for staffing levels and training center programming.
- 5. The applicant shall revise plans and/or respond to peer review comments for review by the Planning Board at the preliminary plan stage.
- 6. At the preliminary plan stage, the applicant shall revise plans and otherwise address additional Town comments, including but not limited to the following issues:
  - a. The design of the roadway within the cottage housing development, including whether a secondary connection to the CCRC is required for emergency vehicles, and whether the road can accommodate turning radii of emergency vehicles.
  - b. Increased demand for rescue services. Provide comparison data to estimate increases in rescue calls for the development.
  - c. Provision of refuse and recycling services and snow removal.
- 7. At the preliminary plan stage, the applicant shall submit a fiscal impact analysis that evaluates cost of services resulting from the development, including the estimated frequency and cost of increased rescue calls, and identifies potential capital budget expenses such as fire equipment.
- 8. For the preliminary plan submission, the applicant shall:
  - a. Provide a narrative that:
    - i. Describes how the proposal complies with the requirements of the Senior Residential Village zone, subject to adoption of the Zoning Ordinance amendments by the Town Council.
    - Demonstrates compliance with applicable Land Development & Subdivision Regulations standards, including Sec. 200-86 – Performance Standards, and identify requested waivers.
    - iii. Responds to peer review comments and any additional Town comments, including a description of plan revisions.
    - Provides a more developed description of the use and potential impacts of the training center facility.
    - v. Provides density comparisons based on similar facilities in town for the CCRC and for the cottage portions of the development.
    - vi. Provides updated numbers on lot coverage (pervious and impervious surface percentages).

- b. Submit a plan in accordance with Article XVII of the Land Development & Subdivision Regulations for meeting the minimum 25 percent affordable housing requirement as per Comprehensive Plan Appendix II - Developer Guidance and consistent with the proposed Fee In Lieu Ordinance.
- c. Provide floor plans and building elevations for affordable cottages and identify the locations of the affordable units in the CCRC to the extent possible, and in the cottage development, in compliance with ∫ 185-194. Design and building requirements
- d. Provide a plan for meeting the outdoor publicly accessible open space requirements, including a site plan with details on proposed furnishings, walkways, lighting, signage and landscaping, and a plan for ongoing maintenance by a private entity. The use of the Belton Court front lawn is encouraged.
- e. Include on the plan a new and/or rebuilt sidewalk along the frontage of Middle Highway. Explore the feasibility of connecting to existing sidewalks on Middle Highway and/or County Road/RI 103.
- f. Provide details for buffer plantings and fencing, including a privacy buffer along the northerly edge.
- g. Identify trees of at least 12 inches in caliper in or adjacent to the limit of disturbance along southerly edge; provide tree protection measures.
- h. Provide the required bike storage per Land Development & Subdivision Regulations Sec. 200-45.2, as part of the preliminary plan submission.
- Provide a lighting plan and photometric plan at preliminary demonstrating minimal light impacts and compliance with Town standards. "Dark sky" lighting fixtures shall be required.
- k. Submit the required traffic impact analysis, per Sec. 200-84.1 of the Land Development & Subdivision Regulations, to include baseline and build conditions, subject to peer review. The study area shall include peak hour intersection analyses at Middle Highway and Primrose Hill Road, and at County Road and Middle Highway. Further, the study shall evaluate conditions for pedestrian access on Middle Highway and on County Road/RI 103 to the south in the study area, and make recommendations for potential off-site sidewalk locations including shifting the northern section of the required sidewalk on the property's Middle Highway frontage to the south toward County Road/RI 103. The study shall clearly present detailed assumptions, by unit type (e.g. parking, staffing, anticipated shift levels, etc.)
- l. Provide a phasing schedule and construction access plan, including anticipated work hours where applicable, for:
  - i. Demolition
  - ii. Infrastructure
  - iii. Building construction
  - iv. Landscape plans, other site improvements."

## P. Dulchinos seconded the motion.

Vote:

Jennifer Azevedo – Yea Paul Dulchinos – Yea Anne Galbraith – Yea

Timothy Lang – Yea Jean Robertson – Yea Lawrence Trim - Yea

The motion carried, 6-0.

Any party aggrieved by this decision may file an appeal in accordance with Article XIV of the Barrington Land Development and Subdivision Regulations, within twenty (20) days from the date of the recording and posting of this decision.

PLANNING BOARD

LAWRENCE TRIM, CHAIR

RECEIVED FOR RECORD Mar 04,2016 08:33A Barrington, R.I. Meredith J. DeSisto TOWN CLERK