October 6, 2025

VIA EMAIL

Administrative Officer Planning, Building, and Resilience Department Town of Barrington 283 County Road Barrington, RI 02806

Re: Responses to Certificate of Completeness/Incompleteness

25 Watson Avenue

Comprehensive Permit – Preliminary Plan

## Dear Administrative Officer:

The Horsley Witten Group (HW) is providing responses to comments that were included in the Certificate of Completeness/Incompleteness prepared by the Planning, Building, and Resilience Department and provided on July 16th, 2025. In addition to this letter the following supplemental materials are included in this submission:

- 1. Updated plan set entitled "Permitting Plans, Freemont Cottages, Barrington, Rhode Island" dated and stamped October 3, 2025.
- 2. Draft Legal Documents
- 3. Affordable unit designation figure
- 4. Abutters mailing labels and map
- 5. Bristol County Water Authority Water Availability Request
- 6. Updated waiver list

Listed below are the comments made by the Administrative Officer followed by our responses.

## Requests from Town:

- 1. Overall landscape plan is missing i.e., no landscape plan for the lot outside the multi-family area. Need street trees.
  - **a. Applicant response: Single family lots are intended to be sold off individually. Clearing, grading, and landscaping will be at the discretion of the homeowner. No work is proposed in the open space lot. The plan proposes 5 shade trees within 25' of the existing edge of pavement along the frontage of the multifamily area. The public right of way along Freemont varies in width and includes overhead wires in some areas. Trees were located to allow for utilities and to keep site lines clear for vehicles exiting onto Freemont.**

- 2. Manufacturer's cut sheets for outdoor site lighting. Beyond the walkway lighting, need information on outdoor house lighting. – garage, front porch
  - a. **Applicant response: Building mounted lighting specifications and updated photometric plan are pending from the manufacturer and will be provided with future design development submissions.**
- 3. Need draft legal docs (e.g., draft deed restriction for affordable units, association docs/bylaws, deed info for the neighborhood park parcel, access drive aisles in multi-family area to remain free and clear 24/7 for proper emergency vehicle access, etc.)
  - a. **Applicant response: Provided with this submission.**
- 4. Abutters mailing labels and map, draft public hearing notice (within 200')
  - a. **Applicant response: Abutters mailing labels and map are provided with this submission. We assume the public hearing notice will be provided by the Town.**
- 5. Which units / parcels will be designated affordable?
  - a. **Applicant response: Provided with this submission.**
- 6. Town needs to be listed as owner on the Site Plans
  - **a. Applicant response: Site plans have been updated to list the Town as the owner and are provided with this submission.**
- 7. BCWA letter status; include fire flows
  - a. **Applicant response: Approved water availability request by BCWA provided with this submission.**

Additional information that may be beneficial to include in the revised application:

- 8. Multi-family dwelling need use waiver, request to allow MF dwellings.
  - a. **Applicant response: Land use waiver has been added to the waiver list under 200-47.**
- 9. Trash/recycling will be curbside according to Town procedure? How will it be handled?
  - a. **Applicant response: Each unit will have their own trash/recycling bins with pickup handling to be determined.**
- 10. EV charging capability in the garages (i.e., 220v outlet)
  - a. **Applicant response: One designated parking space per unit will include wiring and electrical service that is sufficient for EV charging, 240 volt ac level 2 ev charging as defined by Standard SAE J1772 for EVSE servicing electric vehicles.**
- 11. Curbing waiver? (Cape Cod style as substitute)
  - a. **Applicant response: Curbing Waiver has been added to waiver list.**
- 12. Is the bituminous pavement pervious? If so, association docs need to indicate the required O&M
  - a. **Applicant response: Pervious pavement is not proposed on site.**