# 01. Agenda 02-03-2026

*Converted from PDF using pdfplumber*

---


## Page 1


                                                                                    
                                                                                    
                           BARRINGTON   PLANNING   BOARD                            
                                 Regular Business Meeting                           
                                                                                    
                             7:00 PM, Tuesday, February 03, 2026                    
                            Auditorium – Barrington Middle School                   
                               261 Middle Hwy, Barrington, RI                       
                                                                                    
            Meeting materials can be found online at https://www.barrington.ri.gov/182/Planning-Board
                                       AGENDA                                       
            1. Call to Order.                                                       
                                                                                    
            2. Roll Call & Determination of Quorum                                  
            3. Consent Agenda:                                                      
                 a. Approve Minutes:                                                
                      i. January 06, 2026 – Regular Meeting                         
            4. Public Hearing:                                                      
                                                                                    
                 a. Discuss and Act: Belton Court Village Comprehensive Permit Preliminary Plan
                    Application located at 33 Middle Highway (former Zion Bible College), AP14, Lots 2, 4, 13,
                    341, 342, and 343, Senior Residential Village (SRV) District. The applicant seeks Preliminary
                    Plan Approval, including relief from provisions of the Zoning Ordinance and the Land
                    Development & Subdivision Regulations, pursuant to the Comprehensive Permit Process.
                    ShineHarmony Holdings, Inc., applicant and owner, with business address at 650 Pleasant
                    St., Franklin, MA, 02038, proposes the demolition of the existing Belton Court, storage area,
                    gymnasium, residential building and shed buildings to construct a 344-unit residential
                    development containing 220 multi-family units, 66 townhomes, and 58 detached, single-
                    family homes along with common areas and certain off-site public improvements. Of the
                    344 units, 25% will be designated affordable according to the state’s definition of
                    low/moderate income housing.                                    
                    Requested adjustments/waivers include the following: allowance for single-family, two-
                    family, and multi-family dwellings; allowance for parking pursuant to RIGL Section 45-53-
                    4(2) including one parking space/dwelling up to two bedrooms in size; reduction of width
                    and length of parallel parking spaces each by one foot; reduction of minimum parking aisle
                    width by four feet at 90 degree points; allowance for curb cuts greater than 25 feet wide;
                    partial demolition of Belton Court; and preserve tower and to only be required to retain
                    monumental landscaping including the existing cedar hedge and portions of the stone wall;
                    allow a density of 12 units/acre of developable land; allowance for land within the State
                    Regulatory setback and including approximately 4.5 acres within the Belton Court Historic
                    Register District as developable land; allowance to permit parking between Belton Court
                    structures and Middle Highway; allowance for a diversity of housing types besides senior
                    housing; allowance for maximum building height to be 75 feet; allowance for any new
                    structure with height above 55 feet to have setbacks calculated as three feet for every foot of
                    additional height above 55 feet; allowance for maximum building lot coverage of 35% and
                    maximum impervious surface coverage of 60% across the entire site; waiver of the
                    requirement for streets to have a centerline curve; and allowance for streets to have less than
                    25 feet at the edge of the paved surface; and waiver of the requirement to have 300 square
                    feet of open space or recreation are per unit.                  
            5. Other Business:                                                      
                 a. Reports – Board Members, Council Liaison, Director of Planning  
                 b. Future Agenda Items                                             
                                                                                    
            6. Adjournment                                                          
                                                                                    
            ALL PLANNING BOARD MEETINGS ARE AUDIO-RECORDED. All town meetings are open to the public. The Town of Barrington will
           provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal meeting participation. To request an accommodation to participate in a meeting, please submit
            your request by calling (401) 247-1900 Ext. 301 (Town Clerk’s office) or write a letter to the Town Clerk, Town of Barrington, 283 County Road,
           Barrington, RI 02806. Deaf and Hard of Hearing callers can dial 711 “Relay” or through a relay service provider to request an accommodation at the
            Town Clerk’s office. The Barrington Town Hall, Barrington Public Library, and Barrington Public Safety Building are accessible to people with
            disabilities. Agenda posted on January 27, 2025 at Barrington Town Hall and the Barrington Public Library and on Secretary of State Web Site.

