Minutes Monday, September 11, 2023, at 6:46PM TOWN COUNCIL Meeting Barrington Town Hall 283 County Road

Video:<https://vimeo.com/showcase/9672722/video/863562888> Attachments can be found:<https://clerkshq.com/barrington-ri>

## **EXCERPT:**

## **AGENDA ITEM #24: DISCUSS AND ACT: A-FRAME SIGNAGE**

TM Comment: Vice President Humm is requesting a review of and potential amendments to the A-Frame signage requirements in the Town's Zoning Ordinance. A review of the A-Frame sign regulations makes sense, as very few businesses have taken advantage of this option. The requirements, I believe, are overly strict and do not work for some businesses given their unique circumstances. If the Council would like to revisit these regulations, input from the Planning Board is required. The Technical Review Committee (TRC) and Economic Development Commission (EDC) will also need to be involved. Vice President Humm discussed the history with a passage of an ordinance regarding A-frame signs. He commented that the ordinance may be too restrictive. He commented that it may impact some businesses differently than it impacts other businesses. He discussed the location of these signs and the unique circumstances of why an A-frame sign would be helpful to the business (Blue Water Grill which is not located in an area surrounded by other like businesses and the help that an A-frame sign would be to the business.) VP Humm proposed a twopart motion.

**Motion 1: by Vice President Humm and Councilman Cloutier to refer the review of the Aframe sign and ordinance to the Economic Development Commission, Planning Board and Technical Review Commission for potential amendments to the A-frame sign ordinance and the viability of that ordinance.** 

The motion passed in favor 4-0-0-1, President Kustell, Vice President Humm, Councilwoman Berard, and Councilman Cloutier, no one opposed, no recusals and one (1) abstention, Councilwoman Conway (absent).

**Motion 2: by Vice President Humm and seconded by Councilman Cloutier to temporarily suspend the enforcement of the A-frame sign ordinance while it is under review by those town boards identified in Motion 1.** 

Discussion ensued regarding the town administration will work alongside the businesses. Discussion ensued regarding enforcement. Solicitor Goins discussed enforcement is usually at the discretion of the manager subject to any specific direction from the council – normally council does not get involved in specific enforcement issues. But by phrasing the motion in a general way where it is not specific to one business and the motion refers to the general category of an A-frame sign that would be permissible. Discussion ensued regarding safety concerns with the location of the sign (signage should not endanger or prevent wheelchair access etc.)

**Amend Motion 2: by Vice President Humm and seconded by Councilman Cloutier to direct the Town Manager/Administration to suspend the enforcement of the A-frame sign ordinance except for public safety issues as determined by the Town Manager while it is under review by those town boards identified in Motion 1.** 

The motion passed in favor 4-0-0-1, President Kustell, Vice President Humm, Councilwoman Berard, and Councilman Cloutier, no one opposed, no recusals and one (1) abstention, Councilwoman Conway (absent).

## **AGENDA ITEM #25: DISCUSS AND ACT: BANNER PROGRAM**

TM Comment: President Kustell is requesting a review of the Town's lamppost banner program. The Council several years ago approved adding banners to the lampposts on County Road and Maple Avenue. The banners are installed and removed by Public Works. The Barrington Business and Community Association (BBCA) has raised funding by providing space for business names and logos on banners it purchases, a concept that was approved by the Council. The banners on the poles now are the BBCA's. The Town on one or two occasions paid for and installed its own banners. The School Department during Covid placed banners with names of all of the graduating seniors. Most recently, the Town installed banners designed and funded by the Barrington United Veterans with the names and insignias of the applicable military branch of veterans who died during conflict. The Town intends to have these banners on display each year for several weeks around Memorial Day. I have noticed that several of the banners are blocking views of the new wayfinding signs – those will need to be adjusted at some point in the future. Changes to the banner program should include input from the EDC, BBCA, TRC and the Planning Board.

President Kustell said that we have had a banner program for over 10 years. He said that a resident reached out to him and they took a ride on County Road. He said that you see the lovely greenery, flower baskets and a beautiful Town Hall but then we have these many banners. They are all very different, with different colors and it is such a distraction. The resident said to him now picture the view without the banners.

President Kustell proposed retiring the banner program. He discussed that you see them for the first couple of days but then they become blurred in your mind, and they kind of pollute the natural environment to some degree. He commented that the Veterans' banners that are installed around Memorial Day seem more uniform and when the schools commemorated the seniors (during Covid) that was a very nice touch and made an impact. He said perpetually leaving them up doesn't serve the interest and actually detracts from the natural beauty of the town. President Kustell stated that he would like to continue the Veterans' banners or if we have special events in Town. He said that he would refer this out and get a broader set of opinions.

COUNCIL COMMENT: Councilman Cloutier said that he would disagree with the proposition that it has run its course. He said we just discussed the Big Brother Big Sisters Program and if we placed a bin on one side of the town then those from the other side would need to come here to this side of town in order to donate their items. He said that when people venture out and do come to the busier section of town they are reminded of the different businesses in town and the limited

number that we have. He said that County Road is a major thoroughfare and as he went to college he would come to town and see the banners. He said that he still continues to see the banners. He disagrees that it is like a billboard, they are small, and he thinks they should stay.

Councilwoman Berard said she thinks it is a little overkill. She said she likes the idea of the specialness with the Veterans' banners, and she said she pays attention to those. But she said she feels the street scene is cluttered and described that the sidewalks are narrow and can't walk down them. Then she said we have flowers, and they have a sign, and they are not uniform. She said that we are having a lot of different conversations about advertising. She said we have had discussions as to what the aesthetic looks like and she would be in favor of referring it out. She said that she would be interested in what the businesses say since they seem to be the big driver.

President Kustell said that he stated his opinion but would like to refer it out and rather not cut off the deliberative process at this phase. Vice President Humm said that he would look forward to the feedback on the banner program. Councilwoman Berard stated that she hopes part of this conversation is another way to identify and share the business with our community whether that is part of a newsletter or different ways of communication. She said that it is free advertisement for the businesses. But she said if we can think of a way that is maybe more suitable or reaches more people or does it in a different way.

PUBLIC COMMENT: Brian Thimmes, Blue Water Grill, said that the businesses do pay for the banners over \$500. Matt Amaral, 6 Broadview Road, said that it is his understanding that they are put up once a year of a cost of \$500. It is a fundraiser for the business association, and it was put in place by Lois Coppolino from Daisy Dig'ns over 10 years ago. He mentioned that the banners were more uniform, and they would focus on the call for action for the businesses to shop and dine versus a logo with a nautical feeling. He said that they do serve a purpose. But during Covid it was suggested to recognize our Veterans' and our seniors, but he said that this is a lot of work for the Public Works Department. He said that the businesses did sponsor the Town's 300th Anniversary. But there are ways that the program can be restructured.

**Motion by President Kustell and seconded by Vice President Humm to refer the banner program to the Economic Development Commission, the Barrington Business Community Association, Technical Review Committee and the Planning Board for comment on a potential retirement of the BBCA commercial banner program for the purpose of improving the beautification and to use the banner holders for special events or occasions such as banners displayed annually in May for honoring service members leading up to Memorial Day. Pursuant to this motion the Council requests that the named commissions consider alternative designs, potential new banners or other ways to promote businesses in Town.** 

The motion passed in favor 3-1-0-1, President Kustell, Vice President Humm, Councilwoman Berard, one (1) opposed, Councilman Cloutier, no recusals and one (1) abstention, Councilwoman Conway (absent).