## **BARRINGTON PLANNING BOARD**

## **Regular Business Meeting**

7:00 PM, Tuesday, December 2, 2025 Council Chamber – Barrington Town Hall 283 County Road, Barrington, RI

**Meeting materials can be found online at<https://www.barrington.ri.gov/182/Planning-Board>**

## **AGENDA**

- 1. Call to Order.
- 2. Roll Call & Determination of Quorum
- 3. Consent Agenda:
  - a. Approve Minutes:
    - i. October 15, 2025 Special Meeting
    - ii. November 4, 2025 Regular Meeting
- 4. New Business:
  - a. Town Solicitor Update Comprehensive Permit Review: Information for the Public At-Large
  - b. Discuss and Act: Appointing members for the Capital Improvement Program subcommittee.
- 5. Public Hearing:
  - a. Discuss and Act: Comprehensive Permit Preliminary Plan for 25 Watson Avenue, AP 07, Lot 004, R-40. Proposing creating 12 cottages (5 affordable at 120% AMI) and six house lots plus public park. Seeking adjustments for single family lots on parcels 1,2,3,4,5 and 7 for density, minimum lot size and frontage. Seeking adjustments for the 12-unit multi-family parcel 6, for maximum building lot coverage, front and rear yard setbacks, and multiple dwelling units on one lot. In addition, various waivers for site design and development are being requested. FJS Associates, Ltd. (applicant), 79 Peckham Lane, Middletown, RI 02842. Town of Barrington (owner), 283 County Road, Barrington, RI, 02806.Old Business:
- 6. Old Business:
  - a. Discussion and Action: Comprehensive Plan 2024-2025 Updates (Standing Agenda Item): Subject to Availability:
    - i. Discussion of Expired Plan
    - ii. Land Use
    - iii. Maps
- 7. Other Business:
  - a. Reports Board Members, Council Liaison, Director of Planning
  - b. Future Agenda Items
- 8. Adjournment

ALL PLANNING BOARD MEETINGS ARE AUDIO-RECORDED. All town meetings are open to the public. The Town of Barrington will provide reasonable accommodations to ensure equal meeting participation. To request an accommodation to participate in a meeting, please submit your request by calling (401) 247-1900 Ext. 301 (Town Clerk's office) or write a letter to the Town Clerk, Town of Barrington, 283 County Road, Barrington, RI 02806. Deaf and Hard of Hearing callers can dial 711 "Relay" or through a relay service provider to request an accommodation at the Town Clerk's office. The Barrington Town Hall, Barrington Public Library, and Barrington Public Safety Building are accessible to people with disabilities. **Agenda posted on November 24, 2025,** at Barrington Town Hall and the Barrington Public Library and on Secretary of State Web Site.