## Title 45 Towns and Cities

## Chapter 22.2 Rhode Island Comprehensive Planning and Land Use Act

R.I. Gen. Laws § 45-22.2-12

## § 45-22.2-12. Maintaining and re-adopting the plan.

- (a) A municipality must maintain a single version of the comprehensive plan including all amendments, appendices, and supplements. One or more complete copies of the comprehensive plan, including all amendments, shall be made available for review by the public. Availability shall include print, digital formats, and placement on the internet.
- (b) A municipality shall periodically review and amend its plan in a timely manner to account for changing conditions. At a minimum, a municipality shall fully update and re-adopt its entire comprehensive plan, including supplemental plans, such as, but not limited to, special area plans, that may be incorporated by reference, at least once every ten (10) years from the date of municipal adoption. A minimum twenty-year (20) planning timeframe in considering forecasts, goals, and policies must be utilized for an update. If a municipality fails to fully update and re-adopt its comprehensive plan within twelve (12) years from the date of the previous plan's adoption, such municipality shall not be able to utilize the comprehensive plan as a basis for denial of a municipal land use decision.
- (c) A newly adopted plan shall supersede all previous versions.
- (d) A municipality shall file an informational report on the status of the comprehensive plan implementation program with the chief not more than five (5) years from the date of municipal approval.

## History of Section.

P.L. 1988, ch. 601, § 1; P.L. 2011, ch. 215, § 1; P.L. 2011, ch. 313, § 1; P.L. 2023, ch. 314, § 1, effective March 1, 2024; P.L. 2023, ch. 315, § 1, effective March 1, 2024.