# TOWN OF BARRINGTON PLANNING BOARD PRELIMINARY PLAN DECISION – COMPREHENSIVE PERMIT

**Date of Meeting:** December 02, 2025

This is to certify that at the Barrington Planning Board meeting held on the above date, the Board considered the following application:

**Applicant:** FJS Associates, Ltd., 79 Peckham Lane, Middletown, RI 02842 **Owner of Property:** Town of Barrington, 283 County Rd., Barrington RI 02806

**Subject Premises:** 25 Watson Avenue

**Assessor's Plat:** 07 **Lot**: 004 **Zoning District:** R-40

**Requested Action:** Approval of Preliminary Plan – for 25 Watson Avenue, AP 07, Lot 004, R-

40. Proposing creating 12 cottages (5 affordable at 120% AMI) and six house lots plus public park. Seeking adjustments for single family lots on

parcels 1,2,3,4,5 and 7 for density, minimum lot size and frontage.

Seeking adjustments for the 12-unit multi-family parcel 6, for maximum

building lot coverage, front and rear yard setbacks, and multiple

dwelling units on one lot. In addition, various waivers for site design and development are being requested. FJS Associates, Ltd. (applicant), 79 Peckham Lane, Middletown, RI 02842. Town of Barrington (owner), 283

County Road, Barrington, RI, 02806.

**Planning Board Members Voting on Subject Application:** Roni Phipps (Chair), Brian Rua (Vice Chair), Richard Simms (Secretary), Heather Kilmartin, Lawrence Bacher, Douglas Caito, Peter Costa

**Motion:** Member Rua made the following motion, seconded by Member Kilmartin:

"To approve the Preliminary Plan for the Comprehensive Permit for 25 Watson (AP 07, Lot 004, R-40), including the required findings and staff stipulations 7 through 14, as well as the previously agreed-upon conditions with staff formalizing the written decision."

### **Findings of Fact & Conclusions of Law in accordance with R.I. Gen. Laws § 45-53-4(d)(3)(iii)(E)**

Approval is based upon the following findings of fact and conclusions of law:

- a. The proposed development is consistent with local needs as identified in the community's affordable housing plan, and it will offer additional LMI units that will count toward the Town and state's 10% affordable housing goal.
- b. With the granting of the waivers requested and with adherence to the conditions of approval granted herein, the proposed development is in compliance with the standards and provisions of Barrington's Town Code and, further, that no undue adverse local impact will result by the relief granted nor will the conditions imposed with any approval granted herein outweigh the state and local need for low- and moderate-income housing.
- c. The low- and moderate-income housing units proposed are integrated into the parcel intended to house such units; are compatible in scale, meaning that: (1) The size of the low- and moderate-income units are not less than seventy-five percent (75%) of the size of the market rate units; (2) the affordable units are of similar architectural style to the market rate units within the project so that the exterior of the units look like an integrated neighborhood with similar rooflines, window patterns, materials and colors; and (3) the affordable units will be built and occupied in a proportional manner with the construction and occupancy of the market rate units on Parcel 6.
- d. With adherence to the conditions of any approval granted by the Planning Board herein, there will be no significant negative impacts on the health and safety of current or future residents of the community, in areas including, but not limited to, safe circulation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, provision of emergency services, sewerage disposal, availability of potable water, adequate surface water run-off, and the preservation of natural, historical, or cultural features.
- e. The proposed development and lots as configured will have adequate and permanent physical access to a public street in accordance with the requirements of § 45-23- 60(a)(5).
- f. With adherence to the conditions of any approval granted by the Planning Board herein, the proposed development will not result in the creation of individual lots with any physical constraints to development that building on those lots according to pertinent regulations and building standards would be impracticable, except for Parcel 8 which intentionally is being created only as permanent open space or permanently reserved for a public purpose on the approved, recorded plans.

#### **Conditions of Approval:**

This application will be subject to the following conditions in submitting the Final Plan application:

- 1. For Parcel 6, the plans and detailed specifications shall be revised to include a "pull off" area adjacent to Freemont Ave and between the two access drives sufficient in size to permit delivery vehicles a temporary area to park and make deliveries to the Cottage units. (This pull off area shall be used in tandem with the cluster mailbox/package structure required in a subsequent condition contained herein.) Submitted as part of Final Plan application.
- 2. For Parcel 6, a formal letter from the Barrington Fire Department (not existing e-mail) signing off on the project and specifically approving fire access shall be obtained by the applicant from the Fire Chief/Fire Marshall. Submitted as part of Final Plan application.
- 3. Parcel 6, widen access drives to be equal width for the entire length of each access drive. The applicant is permitted to offer a suitable alternative (e.g., pavers) acceptable to the Administrative Officer in meeting this condition related to the area of the access drives that must be widened. Plans and detailed specification sheets to be revised and submitted as part of Final Plan application.
- 4. An ADA compliant, 4' wide sidewalk (absent any obstruction such as sign posts, light pedestals, signs, et al) shall be added to the plans and related detailed specification sheets adjacent Freemont Ave connecting to the access drives. Submitted as part of Final Plan application. Given this condition, the waiver requested re: Section 200-45.3 is denied.
- 5. Notwithstanding the requested waiver re: Section 200-47, the table on Sheet C-4 titled, "Zoning Regulatory Requirements" shall be revised to add the matching information but specific to each of the proposed lots. Also, the revised table shall include each proposed parcel's dimensions (i.e., square footage and equivalent acreage) and other dimension information that applicant may wish to include). Submitted as part of Final Plan application. [As a reminder to the applicant, draft lot descriptions for each proposed parcels needs to be drafted for inclusion in each parcel's deed and submitted as part of Final Plan application.]
- 6. For Parcel 6, for the Final Plan application, the applicant needs to ensure relevant legal documentation includes provision for the "55+ age restriction" for all the Cottage units.
- 7. Parcel 6, notwithstanding the waiver requested re: section 200-51-3, prior to making application for any Building Permit, the applicant, the Zoning/Building Official, and the Town Tree Warden, via a site visit, shall assess whether any existing trees with a caliper equal to 12" or greater can be preserved from construction. (Refer to the Town's Land Development & Subdivision Regulations Section 200-52(D)(1)). If so, those trees shall be marked by the Town

- Tree Warden and duly protected during construction (e.g., installation of snow fencing at the respective tree's dripline).
- 8. A wastewater "sign off" letter shall be obtained by the applicant from the DPW Director, or his designee, indicating that the proposed development plans and detailed specifications comply with wastewater specifications for items such as main tie-ins, adequate service pipe size, et al. Submitted as part of Final Plan application. [Note that during the Building Permit process, applicable inspections occur to assure compliance with the Town Code and any relevant public works specifications.]
- 9. The transformer shown on Sheet C-8 shall be screened with applicable landscaping materials for approval by the Administrative Officer. The applicable plan and detailed specifications shall be revised address this condition. Submitted as part of Final Plan application.
- 10. Jurisdiction for stormwater resides with RIDEM (including CRMC); however, the plans and detailed specifications shall be revised to include notation for each of the proposed development's lots that the responsibility of stormwater maintenance requirements resides with the respective parcel owner.
- 11. The applicant is reminded to ensure that the legal documents, specifically in reference to page 265 of the Stormwater Analysis & Drainage Report, do not require, "*The Town of Barrington* [to be] *responsible for the financing and continuous operation, maintenance and required emergency repair for the stormwater management system and associated drainage network* [on property not owned by the Town]".
- 12. While the plan set includes a sheet titled, Erosion & Sediment Control Plan, the applicant needs to prepare and submit for the Administrative Officer's approval an accompanying narrative typical to such plan. Submitted as part of Final Plan application.

## **The following staff recommendations (reproduced below as originally designated 7-14) are hereby incorporated as additional conditions of approval:**

- **7.** For Parcel 6 Cottage units parcel, the Town needs more specificity on how solid waste (e.g., trash, recycling, curbside compost) will be collected. It is preferable that curbside pickup be conducted near the Cottages' internal driveways' intersection with Freemont Ave. The area(s) to be designated shall be shown on a revised site plan with detailed specifications showing their locations near the two curb cuts with Freemont Ave and submitted as part of any Final Plan application for approval by the Administrative Officer in consultation with the DPW Director. Note: the DPW Director is opposed to curbside collection in front of each unit due to hauler vehicle issues.
- 25 Watson Avenue / Preliminary Plan-Comprehensive Permit December 02, 2025 **8.** For Parcel 6 – Cottage units parcel, the plans and detailed specifications shall be revised to include a USPS approved outdoor cluster mailbox in a location convenient for the USPS and the Cottage unit residents. Such location may require an applicable pull-off from Fremont Ave

- so as not to interfere with any typical day-to-day operations of the Department of Public Works. Plan revisions shall be submitted as part of any Final Plan application for approval by the Administrative Officer in collaboration with the DPW Director.
- **9.** Prior to issuance of any Building Permit, the applicant/property owner shall obtain and submit duly executed copies to the Building Official any necessary temporary construction easements for any work that potentially impacts adjacent properties to 25 Watson Ave and that may occur internally to 25 Watson Ave after the sale of individual parcels occurs. If any temporary construction easement(s) may be necessary, such easement(s) shall include provision that prior to any Certificate of Occupancy, or as otherwise allowed by the Building Official, any undue adverse impact to any adjacent property directly resulting from construction activity due to any easement use shall be restored as close to its original or better condition, for approval by the Building Official, than before said easement use for construction activity occurred. However, any dispute between the property owners and any adjacent property owner to 25 Watson Ave or property owners after the sale of individual parcels occurs that may be a party to any such temporary construction easement(s) shall be a civil matter to be settled between the parties to the easement(s) and not by the Town (except for any Townowned parcel that may be involved).
- **10.** Prior to issuance of any Building Permit, the applicant /property owner shall obtain any necessary state/federal permits, as applicable and warranted, or as otherwise required by the Building Official.
- **11.** As a condition of any Building Permit, the applicant/property owner shall adhere to all applicable fire (and building codes) as set forth in NFPA.
- **12.** Prior to the issuance of any Certificate of Occupancy, all fees owed to the Town shall be made payable to the Town of Barrington by the applicant/property owner.
- **13.** "As-Builts" are required and shall be provided to the Building Official for approval and project acceptance prior to issuance of any Certificate of Occupancy. "As-Builts" approved by the Building Official shall be recorded in the Town's Land Evidence Records with any related fees payable to the Town of Barrington by the applicant at the time of recording.
- **14.** Staff have no issues with any of the waivers requested by the applicant.

#### A vote was held:

R. Phipps: **Yea** B. Rua: **Yea** L. Bacher: **Nay**

R. Simms: **Yea** P. Costa: **Yea**

H. Kilmartin: **Yea** D. Caito: **Yea**

The motion **passed (6,1).** Preliminary Plan approval is **granted** for the comprehensive permit application.

**Pursuant to R.I. Gen. Laws § 45-53-5.1, the Applicant may appeal this decision to the Superior Cout within twenty (20) days from the date of the recording and posting of this decision.**

| PLANNING BOARD     |      |
|--------------------|------|
|                    |      |
| RONI PHIPPS, CHAIR | DATE |